for educational use only
Neeraj Dutta vs State(Govt. Of N.C.T.Of Delhi) on 28 February, 2019
Author: R Banumathi
REPORTABLE
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.1669 OF 2009

MRS. NEERAJ DUTTA

Appellant
VERSUS

STATE (GOVT. PW- 5/A) before ACB, based on which, FIR was
registered. Of N.C.T.Of Delhi) on 28 February, 2019

3. PW-5-shadow
witness was examined who supported the case of the prosecution. Being aggrieved, the appellant
has preferred this appeal. Panch witness was examined as PW-1, which was the sheet anchor of the
prosecution case. Though, a very spirited
endeavour has been made by the learned counsel for the State to co-relate this
statement of PW 1 S. Udaya Bhaskar to the attendant facts and circumstances
including the recovery of this amount from the possession of the appellant by the trap
team, identification of the currency notes used in the trap operation and also the
chemical reaction of the sodium carbonate solution qua the appellant, we are left
unpersuaded to return a finding that the prosecution in the instant case has been able
to prove the factum of demand beyond reasonable doubt. Even if the evidence of PW
1 S. Udaya Bhaskar is accepted on the face value, it falls short of the quality and
decisiveness of the proof of demand of illegal gratification as enjoined by law to hold
that the offence under Section 7 or Sections 13(1)( d)(i) and (ii) of the Act has been
proved. The analysis undertaken as hereinabove qua Sections 7 and 13(1)(d)(i)
and (ii) of the Act, thus, had been to underscore the indispensability of the proof of demand of illegal
gratification...[Underlining added]. Ms. Kiran Suri, learned senior counsel for the State submitted that in Satyanarayana, the court
did not notice the line of judgments and the consistent view taken by this Court in various decisions
that demand can be proved either by direct evidence or by drawing inference from other evidence
like evidence of panch witness and the circumstances. The learned senior counsel has drawn our attention to number of judgments where accused was
convicted even when the evidence of complainant was not available either due to death of
complainant or where the complainant had turned hostile. In Hazari Lal v. State (Delhi Administration) (1980) 2 SCC 390, the complainant was declared
hostile and the only other evidence was that of Inspector (PW-8) to whom the complainant made
statement when he went to lodge the complaint and another witness who has supported the
prosecution case only in some particulars. It is not necessary that the passing of money should be proved by direct evidence. It may also be proved by circumstantial evidence. if the condition envisaged in the former part of the section is satisfied. The only condition for drawing such a legal presumption under Section 20 is that
during trial it should be proved that the accused has accepted or agreed to accept any
gratification. Direct evidence is one of the
modes through which a fact can be proved. But that is not the only mode envisaged in
the Evidence Act. Presumption is an inference of a certain fact drawn from other proved facts. While inferring the
existence of a fact from another, the court is only applying a process of intelligent reasoning which
the mind of a prudent man would do under similar circumstances. Presumption is not the final
conclusion to be drawn from other facts. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/108225150/

4

Neeraj Dutta vs State(Govt. Direct proof of
demand may not be available in all the above instances but from the evidence of panch witness,
acceptance of money was proved by Phenolphthalein Test and by raising presumption under Section
20 of the Act, it is permissible to draw inference to prove the demand. We are not delving into the controversy any
further. In the light of the consistent view taken by this Court in various judgments, we have some
reservation in respect of the observation and findings recorded by this Court in P. Satyanarayana
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/108225150/

5

Neeraj Dutta vs State(Govt. The
matter be placed before the Honble Chief Justice for appropriate orders.