for educational use only
REPORTABLE
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

CIVIL APPEAL NO. These lands which were reserved
for common purposes were jealously guarded and were in
essence the common property of the original settlers and those
who had helped them after clearing the waste and bringing the
land under cultivation. Over period of time, the cultivable areas were separated

amongst the different owners and in view of the caste system
which was then extensively prevalent, separate areas in the
village or in different hamlets were provided for different
communities based not only on caste or religion but sometimes
on professions also. The relevant portion reads as under:

3

“2. The land continues to be shown in
the possession of the appellant(s) or his ancestors in the
Jamabandis from the year 1915­1916 till date. The issue for consideration is whether the word ‘shamilat’

has to be read with taraf, patti, pannas, and tholas or only with
taraf in sub­clause (v) of clause (5) of Section 2(g). Patti is

described as division of land into separate portions or strips in a
village. The terms ‘taraf’, ‘panna’ and ‘thola’ may be different but
are akin to patti and also deal with community of villagers
residing separately. Therefore, they have virtually the same

meaning. It is also apparent that a patti can

7

normally be created out of the shamilat land only when a group
of people enjoy some portion of the land out of the bigger
common shareholding that is a patti. We are of the view that there seems to be an error rather
than a deliberate non­use of the comma. This clearly implies that if the land described as
‘shamilat’, ‘taraf’, ‘patti’, ‘panna’ and ‘thola’ were not being used
for the common purpose, it would not fall within the meaning of
‘shamilat deh’. Clause (3) of Section 2(g) is

The purpose is that the land which is described in

revenue records as ‘shamilat’, ‘taraf’, ‘patti’, ‘panna’ and ‘thola’
and used for the benefit of the entire village community or a part
thereof only would vest in the village proprietary body. However, if the land is not used

either for the benefit of the entire village or for the part of the
village community which comprises the patti then the land, in
our opinion, cannot be said to be ‘shamilat deh’ land within the
meaning of Section 2(g).