for educational use only
Poona Ram vs Moti Ram (D) Th. 4527 OF 2009

POONA RAM

...APPELLANT
VERSUS

MOTI RAM (D) TH. The judgment dated 28.08.2006 passed by the High Court of Judicature of Rajasthan at Jodhpur
in Civil Second Appeal No. A−6 dated 06.02.1956, executed by the original owner Khoom Singh in favour of Purkha Ram,
and Ex. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/56103097/

1

Poona Ram vs Moti Ram (D) Th. Additionally, she
argues that the sale deeds mentioned supra relied upon by the defendants would clearly reveal that
the defendants were in possession of the property as owner thereof, from the date of purchase of the
suit property. Undisputedly and as duly admitted by both parties, the property in question originally belonged
to Jagirdar Khoom Singh of Barmer. 14 are the survey maps of the Municipality. 12 (first
survey) reveals that Moti Ram was in possession of the land, the plot to the east of which was
possessed by Nawala Harijan and in the east of Nawala Harijans plot, possession of Purkha Ram (to
recall, predecessor− in−interest of the defendants) on the site has been indicated. However, after the Municipality took over possession, it seems
that orderly formation of the plots was undertaken. This sale deed shows the measurement of the land, which
corresponds to the plots in question approximately. The judgment of the First Appellate Court
reveals that the Municipality had let out only three plots to the Jagirdar, and those three plots
together measured 32 x 66 hands (unit of measurement). 14, which relates to the plot in question, i.e., Plot No. 7,
reveals that it was owned by Poona Ram, who is Defendant No. Such a suit is known in law as a suit based on possessory title as distinguishable from
proprietary title. It cannot be disputed and is by now well settled that settled possession or effective
possession of a person without title entitles him to protect his possession as if he were a true owner. They serve also to contract the position of one whose rights are ultimate,
permanent and residual with that of one whose rights are only of a temporary nature. Many other legal systems, however, go much further than this,
and treat possession as a provisional or temporary title even against the true owner himself. Even a
wrongdoer, who is deprived of his possession, can recover it from any person whatever, simply on
the ground of his possession. Later, in the
case of Nair Service Society Ltd. v. K.C. Alexander, AIR 1968 SC 1165, this Court ruled that when the
facts disclose no title in either party, possession alone decides. It was also observed by this Court in Nair Service Society Ltd (supra) that a person in possession
of land in assumed character of owner and exercising peaceably the ordinary rights of ownership has
a perfectly good title against the entire world except the rightful owner. The law will come to the aid of a person in
peaceful and settled possession by injuncting even a rightful owner from using force or taking law in
his own hands, and also by restoring him in possession even from the rightful owner (of course
subject to the law of limitation), if the latter has dispossessed the prior possessor by use of force. The crux of the matter is that a person who asserts possessory title over a particular property will
have to show that he is under settled or established possession of the said property. A casual act of possession does not have the effect of
interrupting the possession of the rightful owner. A stray act of trespass, or a possession which has
not matured into settled possession, can be obstructed or removed by the true owner even by using
necessary force. Settled possession must be (i) effective,
(ii) undisturbed, and (iii) to the knowledge of the owner or without any attempt at concealment by
the trespasser. There cannot be a straitjacket formula to determine settled possession. The possession should contain an element of animus possidendi. A−6, three plots have been mentioned as plots of three houses. on 29 January, 2019

third plot being Plot No. On
12.05.1967, a fire broke out and the entire fodder stored on the plot got burnt. DW−7, who has been referred to in order to establish spreading of the fire, stated
that the fire started due to sparks coming from a railway engine. 1
does not refer to the plot in question, and its boundaries have also not been mentioned. Merely on
doubtful material and cursory evidence, it cannot be held that the plaintiff was ever in possession of
the property, and that too in settled possession. The said body of the motor
vehicle is about 3 to 4 feet in length only and the same was lying on the boundary of the disputed
property. As mentioned supra, mere casual possession,
that too relying on a motor vehicle body lying on a part of the property, would not prove settled
possession of the plaintiff.