for educational use only
NON-REPORTABLE
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. The incident
occurred in the evening of 9th August, 1996. Cause of his death
1

was stabbing injuries inflicted on him in course of such assault. No.3043 of 2010,
also reached the spot and took Sanjeev’s side in such quarrel. Sanjeev however
returned after a short while along with three other individuals,
Kamal, Dhanpal and said Sant Ram to the place of occurrence. But in relation
to these three appeals, foundation of conviction was eyewitness
account of the incident. Sanjay (P.W.1), Narender Kumar
4

(P.W.3) and Sobha Ram (P.W.4) testified as eyewitnesses and
gave uniform account of assault on the deceased victim. In an earlier case,
Rajkishore Purohit vs. State of Madhya Pradesh and
6

Others [(2017) 9 SCC 483], it has been held that to establish
common intention to cause murder, overt act or possession of
weapons by all the accused persons is not necessary. Rehri Gadi and
Dhadi are words with similar
pronunciation. Their testimony cannot be discarded on
that account. The IO PW 19
SI Surinder Kumar says that he recorded
the statements of the witnesses at the spot
after coming from the hospital. This reads:“To Duty officer P.S Bhajanpura. Mauzpur where blood was lying on
the road on inquires it was known that
deceased Ajay Kumar Sharma S/o Bal
Ram Sharma has been taken to GTB
Hospital and eye witness was present at
the place of incident so left constable
Pradeep Kumar to took after the place of
occurrence, I proceeded to GTB Hospital
and got MiC report C-272196 regarding
Ajay Kumar Sharma who was declared
dead by Dr. Sahay casualty at 7 PM. The delay in registering the
FIR has been explained properly and judgment of conviction
cannot fail for that reason. But for that factor alone we cannot exonerate the appellants,
particularly since the Court of first instance and the First
Appellate Court have already examined the evidence and given
their findings in favour of prosecution. In case they do
not surrender within the aforesaid timeframe, the Trial Court
shall take necessary steps to take them into custody. Pending application(s), if any, stand disposed of.