for educational use only
Chaitu S/O. Madi Atram (In Jail) vs State Of Maharashtra Thr. Chaitu S/o Madi Atram,
Age about 38 years,
Occupation Cultivation,
R/o. Alapalli, Tahsil Aheri,
District Gadchiroli. ...RESPONDE

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Ms. 27/2015 registered at
Police Station, Aheri, District Gadchiroli in Sessions Case No. The
accused and the deceased were residing separately. The three children of the couple were
residing at Tadgaon. The
accused used to visit her room frequently. As the accused was present on the spot, he was taken in custody and then arrested. P.I. - Shri More recorded apeal 94.19.odt
statements of the witnesses. The dead body of the deceased was forwarded for autopsy vide
forwarding letter Exh.31. P.I. - Shri More also forwarded a query about the weapon to the Medical
Officer along with the weapon of offence. The seized Muddemal was sent for Chemical Analyzer's
report vide forwarding letter Exh. The Court of
Sessions framed charge of murder against the accused and recorded his plea. He denied the charge
and claimed to be tried. (v) To prove the charge against the accused the prosecution has examined in all 10 witnesses and
also brought on record the relevant documents and Muddemal which was seized during
investigation. He was called upon to enter his defence to
which he denied. The impugned judgment is challenged in this appeal. The learned counsel for the appellant categorically submitted that the whole case is dependent on
the circumstantial evidence and the chain of circumstances to reach to the conclusion against the
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/6390395/

2

Chaitu S/O. Madi Atram (In Jail) vs State Of Maharashtra Thr. Its ... on 19 July, 2019

accused is not complete. A cogent and
consistent evidence pointing conclusively the guilt towards the accused is required and which is
missing in this case. His clothes were also found stained with blood. He submits that the accused is a habitual drunkard and used
to ill-treat his wife and used to demand money from her. This shows motive of the accused to commit murder of his wife. Perused the record and
the impugned judgment. At the outset, out of 10 witnesses, only 3 witnesses i.e. the Informant, the
Medical Officer and the Investigation Officer supported the prosecution case. Though,
PW/1
- Ramchandra Bhedke - the informant, who was the landlord of the deceased, claimed to have seen
the accused lastly along with the deceased at 8.00 p.m. on the day of the incident in her room
quarreling with the deceased, however, he does not say this material fact in his First Information
Report (Exh.15). As such, the material link of 'last seen' is
missing in this case in the chain of circumstances. PW/9 - Rina - the daughter of the accused though initially did not support the prosecution story,
however, the learned Additional Public Prosecutor succeeded to bring on record some facts
supporting the prosecution story from the mouth of this witness. Her father is a drunkard and used to beat her
mother as she was residing separately leaving children. She has also admitted that her father used to
come to Alapalli for demanding money for liquor and her mother used to drive him out. Furthermore, the admissions by the daughter of the accused, in our opinion, even not sufficient
to draw an inference that the accused killed the deceased, though it could show the probable motive
to commit murder. (3)

her

The accused is a habitual drunkard. Now, the question is whether these circumstances complete the chain of circumstances so as to
draw an inference that none other than the accused has committed murder of the deceased
- Bhingari. (iv) None of the Panch witnesses supported the prosecution case. Possibility of tampering
with the articles can not be ruled out. (vii) The possibility of murder by any third person cannot be ruled out. (iv) The Muddemal being useless be destroyed.