for educational use only
1

REPORTABLE
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. According to the informant there was a
dispute going on between the parties. 2 to 5 herein with sticks/lathis in their hands were
standing. After perusing the evidence led by the parties and solely relying upon the

evidence of Mullo Bai – PW8 the sole eye-witness, the Learned Trial Court
convicted all the accused for the offences under Section 302 r/w Section 149 of
IPC. 2 to 5 have preferred the present appeal. 8.4

It is further submitted that as such there was material contradiction in the

deposition of the PW8 insofar as identifying/recognizing the appellants in the light
of torch or from the chimney light. 2 to 5 that the case of the original accused
nos. P.C. as well as her deposition before the Court. It is submitted that her
presence on the spot is natural as the incident has taken place in her house and near
the place where she was sleeping. It is submitted that as she is the sole eyewitness
to the incident, both the courts are justified in convicting the accused relying upon
the deposition/evidence of PW8 – Mullo Bai. 2 to 5 on
the spot has been established and proved by the prosecution by examining PW8
who is the eyewitness. 11.3 It is further submitted by the Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the
State that even the accused were recognized and identified by PW8 – Mullo Bai
even from their voice, so stated by PW8 in her deposition. Making the above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal. P.C. has stated that she has seen all
the accused in the light of the torch. She has stated that Bal Kishan – original
accused no.1 was having an axe and other four were armed with lathis. According to her after she shouted, other persons came. In her deposition, she has also stated that there was a chimney light in the cattle
shed. It is required to be noted that no other independent witness even named
by PW8 has supported the case of the prosecution. There

12

is material improvement so far as the chimney light is concerned. P.C. is inadmissible in evidence and cannot be
relied upon or used to convict the accused. P.C. can be used only to prove the
contradictions and/or omissions. P.C. while
observing that the appellants were having the lathis. In the
facts and circumstances of the case, there are material contradictions, omissions
and/or improvements so far as the appellants herein – original accused nos. Therefore, as such the appellants are entitled to be given benefit of doubt. 14.3 Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the State that relying upon the
deposition of PW8, the original accused no.1 was convicted and his conviction has
been confirmed upto this Court and therefore to dismiss the present appeal qua
other accused is concerned from the evidence on record and having observed
hereinabove the case of the appellants – original accused nos. 2 to 5 are entitled to be

14

given the benefit of doubt. Under the circumstances, the present appeal is allowed.