for educational use only
Santosh Sampat Jagtap And Anr vs The State Of Maharashtra on 6 August, 2019

Bombay High Court
Santosh Sampat Jagtap And Anr vs The State Of Maharashtra on 6 August, 2019
Bench: S. V. Kotwal
1

18-ABA No.616-19.doc

IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
ANTICIPATORY BAIL APPLICATION NO.616 OF 2019

Santosh Sampat Jagtap & Anr. ]

... Applicants

]

... Respondent

Versus
The State of Maharashtra

Mr. Sudeep Pasbola a/w Mr. Karl Rustomkhan i/b Mr. Prajyot
Shrivastav, Advocate for the Applicants. Mr. Sachin Bari, SDPO Daund, Pune Rural present. The FIR in this case is lodged on 06/08/2018 by one Vishal Shelar in respect of murder of his
brother Swapnil Shelar which was Purti Parab 1 of 12 committed on 05/08/2018 at around 9.15 p.m.
The FIR mentions that the deceased was taking contracts for excavation and supply of sand. The FIR mentions that, the applicants used to threaten the
deceased. The deceased and these two persons were granted contract in the year 2016-2017. The accused Purti Parab 2 of 12 Babu Memane, Ranjit Vanjare had attended the
dinner and had left early. The accused Somnath Shelar had not attended the dinner. He told the informant that, he wanted to
deliver it to somebody. The informant did not ask him details about that. The deceased left with one
Sagar Bhandalkar. One Vilas Shelar came to the informant's house and told him that the deceased was murdered on the
road in front of house of one Narayan Shelar. The charge-sheet contains
statements of various important witnesses. The applicants were earlier granted anticipatory bail. Mr. Pasbola, in particular, invited my attention to the statements of Sujata Shelar who was widow
of the deceased and Bapurao Shelar who was uncle of the deceased. Both of them had seen the
actual incident of assault. He submitted that, the statements of
these witnesses are recorded belatedly and therefore even at this stage, these statements are
required to be ignored. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/53546332/

2

Santosh Sampat Jagtap And Anr vs The State Of Maharashtra on 6 August, 2019

11. Counsel for the Intervener as well as Ld. They
submitted that, the applicants were not arrested and therefore, the investigating agency has not
interrogated them through custodial interrogation. They submitted that, at this stage there is
sufficient material against the present applicants warranting their arrest and custodial
interrogation. The deceased
told her to go with his uncle Bapurao Shelar. This witness Sujata proceeded
towards the dispensary with the uncle of the deceased. The important
part of her statement shows that, at that point when the Purti Parab 6 of 12 assault was going on, the
accused Somnath Shelar shouted that nobody should take enmity with the present applicants
otherwise they would meet the same fate as Pintu. Afterwards all
the assailants left the spot. He has described the incident in the same
manner. There is a statement of one Mayur
Bhandalkar who had accompanied the deceased when he had left his house. But deceased proceeded
further and this witness had not seen the actual incident. There is statement of one Mahesh Shelke which has some relevance. But since January 2018, this witness had seen all of
them together at Kedgaon on many occasions. The statement of this witness Mahesh Shelke is also
recorded u/sec. He
knew all the other accused as well as the present applicants. They were discussing for
about 10 to 15 minutes. At this stage, it is not possible to observe that, the allegations against the present
applicants are baseless. APP does not have
serious objection to this request. Considering both these
submissions, I am inclined to grant protection for a period of seven days. Application is rejected and stands disposed of accordingly.