for educational use only
Balwan Singh vs The State Of Chhattisgarh on 6 August, 2019

Supreme Court of India
Balwan Singh vs The State Of Chhattisgarh on 6 August, 2019
Author: Mohan M. Shantanagoudar
Bench: N.V. Ramana, Mohan M. Shantanagoudar, Ajay Rastogi
REPORTABLE
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 179 of 2011 confirming the
judgment and order of conviction dated 20.01.2011 passed by the Additional Sessions Judge, Fast
Track Court, Pendra Road, District Bilaspur in S.T. No. 727 of 2015), on 22nd
January, 2007, at evening time, was talking with the other accused regarding preparation to kill
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/167087601/

1

Balwan Singh vs The State Of Chhattisgarh on 6 August, 2019

Pitambar Singh. The injured died instantaneously and the accused fled away. The deceased was the uncle of the informant. Shri Sanjay Hegde, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant Balwan Singh, and Shri
Rajeev Kumar Bansal, learned counsel appearing for appellants Latel Ram and Santu @ Santram,
drew the attention of the Court to the relevant portions of the depositions of the important
witnesses, and submitted that the prosecution had planted the eye witnesses, namely, PW−9 and
PW−16 for the purpose of prosecuting the accused, though these witnesses were not present near the
scene of occurrence. PW−2 and the investigating officer, during
the course of the investigation, had seen PW−9, being the Patel (Patwari) of the village. PW−2 had
admitted in the cross−examination that he had seen PW−9 at the place of the incident when the
police had come to the village after the registration of the First Information Report. PW−2 is none
else but the younger brother of PW−9, and they were residing separately in one house. The investigating officer had proceeded to depose that, on his own, he had recorded the
statement of PW−9 on 30.01.2007, which means that PW−9 had not informed the investigating
officer that he was an eye witness to the incident. It is thus clear that the investigating officer knew very well, on the
first day itself, that PW−9 was an eye witness. PW−9 and PW−16 are close friends, and on the date of the incident, had gone together to see Panthi
dance in the village during night, and at that point in time, both of them heard the cries of the
deceased and rushed to the spot and saw the accused committing the murder of the deceased. On hearing such utterance of these witnesses, the accused allegedly tried to chase them,
but they fled away from the scene. It is relevant to note that even at the time of the recording of the
statements of PW−9 and PW−16 after eight days of the incident, Balwan Singh was not arrested. It is
relevant to note that these witnesses were not scared of other accused who were arrested. This factor was treated as a serious lacuna in the case
of the prosecution. which were taken from the spot by the investigating officer. In this connection, reference may also be made to circumstances 9 and 10,
relating to the recovery of the bloodstained earth from the house. The bloodstained earth has not been proved to be stained with human blood. These circumstances have, therefore, no evidentiary value. ( Sometimes it is possible, either because the stain is insufficient in itself, or due to haematological
changes and plasmatic coagulation, that a serologist may fail to detect the origin of the blood in
question. In this
context, it was noted that it could not be said that in all cases where there was a failure in detecting
the origin of blood, the circumstance arising from recovery of the weapon would stand relegated to
disutility. It was thus observed that unless the doubt was of a reasonable dimension which a
judicially conscientious mind entertained with some objectivity, no benefit could be claimed by the
accused. For this reason, in Prabhu
Dayal v. State of Rajasthan, (2018) 8 SCC 127, where one of us (Mohan M. Shantanagoudar J.) had
the occasion to author the judgment, this Court, relying on Teja Ram (supra), had held that the
failure to determine the blood group of the bloodstains collected from the scene of offence would not
prove fatal to the case of the prosecution. Hence, in the absence of positive material indicating that the stained blood was of human origin and
of the same blood group as that of the accused, it would be difficult for the Court to rely upon the
aspect of recovery of the weapons and tabbal, and such recovery does not help the case of the
prosecution. In view of the above material which is shaky, suspicion arises in the mind of the Court about the
genesis of the case of the prosecution. The impugned judgments of the Trial Court and the High
Court are set aside. The appellants are directed to be released forthwith, if not required in any other
case. Accordingly, the other accused in S.T. No. 57 of 2010, who have not preferred appeals before this
Court, shall also be released forthwith, if not required in any other case. ....J.
(N.V. RAMANA) ..J.
(MOHAN M. SHANTANAGOUDAR) ...J.
(AJAY RASTOGI) NEW DELHI AUGUST 06, 2019

Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/167087601/

7