for educational use only
Yadubahadur @Yadu Manbahadur ... vs The State Of Maharashtra on 12 June, 2019

Bombay High Court
Yadubahadur @Yadu Manbahadur ... vs The State Of Maharashtra on 12 June, 2019
Bench: B.P. Dharmadhikari
rsk

1

J-APPEAL-335-15.doc

IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.335 OF 2015
Yadubahadur @ Yadu Manbahadur Singh
Age 25 years, R/o:|Daud Ward 1, Devanmanu, ]
District Todi, Hoti Hanchal, Nepal. --CORAM : B.P. DHARMADHIKARI &
PRAKASH D. NAIK, JJ. According to learned counsel for accused there is no eye witness and conviction is based only on
circumstantial evidence. She submits that son of deceased Ushaben viz. Dilip examined as PW-7 could
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/150725120/

1

Yadubahadur @Yadu Manbahadur ... vs The State Of Maharashtra on 12 June, 2019

not identify accused No.2 and he identified accused No.1 who already was in employment of his
mother. Test identification parade was conducted almost after 15 days that too in jail and reliance
upon such test identification parade is unwarranted. His evidence that he saw three nepali persons
in pump room and one of them was accused does not inspire confidence. Evidence of this witness PW-6 is again not
material as he claims that he saw three persons leaving the society in which deceased resided
hurriedly cannot be accepted. The claim of prosecution that accused persons immediately after their arrest on 16/9/2018 made
disclosure statement and accordingly recoveries have been effected on 17/9/2008 and 19/9/2008
vide Exhibit 91 and Exhibit 73 is liable to be discarded. The panchanama of recovery at
Exhibit 91 and Exhibit 73 are pressed into service by learned counsel to show that properties shown
as discovered therein were not disclosed by informant/PW- 1-Rupal. Submission is even alleged
currency notes seized have not been shown to PW-1-Rupal. Test identification Parade was held at neutral place on 1/10/2008
and witnesses have identified accused persons. Other material on record therefore
completes the chain and indicates accused No.2 as the person who has committed murder and
robbery. The circumstances establish that they had entered the flat and were last seen in the flat. PW-2 Rajul used to drop son of PW 1 Harsh and her daughter to Mumbadevi Vidya Mandir in
morning. Accused No.1 used to arrive at about 8.30
a.m. and remained in flat up to 11.30 p.m. As Harsh was not sent to school, daughter of PW-2-Rajul
by name Pankti was dropped by PW-2 Rajul in morning hours in the school. As there was no response she opened the door with her
keys and then she found her mother in law Ushaben lying on floor with her limbs tied. They searched for Harsh in
flat and found that articles in cupboard were lying scattered. Harsh was ultimately found in bath tub of 2 nd bedroom with his limbs
tied. One Dr. Maniyar had arrived in the flat and declared Ushaben
dead. rsk 6 J-APPEAL-335-15.doc He advised Harsh to be taken to Nanawati hospital but in the hospital
Harsh was declared dead. In flat, wardrobes in both bedrooms were open and articles therein were lying scattered. Homicidal death of Ushaben and Harsh is not in dispute at all. Article 28 is green polythene bag which contained other articles. There is no cross examination on identification of articles by her. One of
them was accused No.1 while other two were unknown. PW-6-Salim has been examined by prosecution to show that when he entered the flat scheme of
PW-7 at about 1.30 p.m., he saw accused persons hurriedly leaving that building. In chief only he deposed that he has seen them in
police station before test identification parade and thereafter at Arthar Road jail. He further deposes that in
identification rsk 8 J-APPEAL-335-15.doc parade faces of persons were not covered. This witness therefore ceases to be witness to test
identification parade as accused persons were already shown to him in police station. However, again he refused to answer further
questions because of loss of memory due to lapse of time. Learned APP was then permitted to cross
examine him and then this witness admitted everything was recorded in Exhibit 73. He then
accepted that accused, this witness and police arrived at Medini Niketan Apartment. Then they went
to office of Society in that building which was closed. He stated that he was secretary of
the Society. Examination-in-chief and cross examination of
PW-8 therefore does not show any attempt to mislead the Court. Moreover the Secretary of Society
Sudhir has been examined as PW-4 who independently proves the recovery. His cross examination by accused persons does not show anything worth mentioning and his
assertion on oath therefore needs to be accepted. Total rsk 10 J-APPEAL-335-15.doc 15 articles were then recovered. Valuer Chandanlal Jasraj Parmar then examined those articles. He separated silver/gold
ornaments and one valuable watch. This panchanama Exh.91 dated 17/9/2008 is proved by PW-12-Investigating Officer
Dalvi. This witness has proved this document Exh.91 and articles then recovered. We find that this witness accepted that the word 'seal' is not mentioned in
panchanama Exh.91, however panchanama mentions that total 7 articles and cash were placed in
transparent plastic bag, it was closed by applying label of signature of police and panch witnesses
and that bag was seized. Her deposition shows that religious festival was
being celebrated and 3/9/2008 was 8 th day of that function. One finger print was collected from glass on cupboard. Nothing worth mentioning to discredit this witness is brought on record. PW-11-Jagtap is next witness who pointed out how he detected finger prints and how photographer
Savekar took photographs of this impressions. He then
pointed out receipt of those photographs by him on 24/9/2008 and exercise of study thereof. He has given reasons in support of his
opinion at Exhibit 87 and his findings are at Exhibit 88. Similarly chance finger print on mirror of another wooden cupboard is found identical with left
middle finger print. We therefore find nothing wrong in judgment of conviction delivered by trial Court. Accordingly, we pass following order:
i) Appeal is accordingly dismissed.