for educational use only
REPORTABLE

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
Civil Appeal No. Upon being produced
before the designated Court, he was remanded to custody and placed under
suspension from his office of the CEO. By his communication dated 21 August 2017, the
Registrar stated that the appointment made by the appellant of the sixth
respondent was in accordance with law and that the order of appointment should
be complied with. 6

On 25 August 2017, the BoD of the first respondent resolved to accept the

appointment of the sixth respondent and directed that the seventh respondent
shall hand over charge of the post of the CEO to the sixth respondent. This, the Division
Bench held, flows from clause (b) of Section 54(3). The Division Bench found fault with the appellant for
having stepped-in to fill a vacuum when none existed. The judgment of the learned Single Judge was accordingly
7

Writ Appeal No. (b)
The Managing Director shall be ex-officio member of
the committee. (c)
The Managing Director shall be the Chief Executive
Officer of the society and shall perform such duties
and exercise such powers as may be prescribed. Sub-section (1) of Section 49-E deals with the appointment of the

Managing Director and CEO of an Apex Society. Section 54 is in the following terms:
“54. 7

14

In exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (3) of Section 54, a

notification was issued by the State of Madhya Pradesh (prior to its
reorganisation) on 12 January 1971. The notification is extracted below:
“Notification No. 258-413-Fifteen-1.71 dated 12.01.1971
By exercising powers under sub-section 3 of section 54 of
Madhya Pradesh Cooperative Societies Act 1960 (No. Sub-clause (b)(i) of sub-section (2)
clearly stipulates that the CEO shall be appointed from among officers
in the cadre constituted under Section 54;

(v)

Rule 3 of the Central Cooperative Bank Staff Services Rules 1982
stipulates that appointments to all posts classified as Class-I posts shall
be made by the Apex Bank from the list of cadre officers maintained by
it. It is only if the CEO is not
appointed within a specified period, that the Registrar is empowered to
appoint an eligible officer as the CEO. On a
clarification sought by the BoD of the first respondent, the Registrar of
Cooperative Societies, by his reply dated 21 August 2017 observed that
the appointment made by the appellant was in accordance with law. The consequence of the impugned decision would be
to deprive the Apex Bank of its authority to monitor the affairs of Central
Cooperative Societies. Financial control can be maintained through the
power to appoint CEOs. Such a position was occasioned as huge
amounts of public funds is at stake. The
word “Society” mentioned in sub-section (1) of Section 54 includes
Primary Cooperative Societies, Central Cooperative Societies and State
Cooperative Societies, which means that every society shall appoint its
Manager, Secretary, Accountant and other paid officers;

(v)

The notification dated 12 January 1971 issued by the State Government
under Section 54(3) will be considered to be nullified by the 2012
Amendment Act and subsequently by the 2016 Amendment Act. What is not
provided in the statute cannot be read into it. 20

The rival submissions now fall for consideration. It covers appointments “in certain circumstances,” which are specified therein. In all
other cases, the Central Society may appoint the Managing Director or General
Manager with the prior approval of the Registrar of Cooperative Societies. 26

The present dispute has arisen by virtue of the 2016 Amending Act which

inserted clauses (a) and (b) in Section 54(3) of the 1960 Act. However, according to the
submission, the CEO must fulfill the eligibility criteria prescribed by the RBI. 27

In the submission of the first respondent, clauses (a) and (b) are special

provisions enacted for Cooperative Banks and are intended to have an overriding
effect over: (i) the power of the State Government to issue a notification in
exercise of its powers under Section 54(3); and (ii) Section 49-E(2) which
mandates that Central Societies shall appoint their CEOs from the cadre
constituted under Section 54. The constitution of the
Selection Board was also set out in sub-section (19). The 1960 Act covers a myriad of societies under its ambit. Though the

term „class of societies‟ includes within its ambit Cooperative Banks, the learned
counsel for the first respondent has contended that clause (a) and (b) of Section
54(3) were intended to carve out Cooperative Banks from the enabling power
conferred upon the State Government and vest with them the exclusive power to
appoint their CEOs. 31

It is a settled principle of law that where two provisions of an enactment

appear to conflict, courts must adopt an interpretation which harmonises, to the
best extent possible, both provisions. Where two provisions conflict, courts may enquire which of the two provisions is
specific in nature and whether it was intended that the specific provision is carved
out from the application of the general provision. The general provision operates,
save and except in situations covered by the specific provision. 22

32

In an early decision of this Court in JK Cotton Spinning and Weaving

Mills Co Ltd v State of Uttar Pradesh10, a three judge Bench of this Court
considered whether the principle applied to conflicts within the same enactment. Under
Clause 24, an order of the Board, unless modified in appeal, was final and
conclusive. This suggestion does
not find support in either principle or authority. 33

In Commercial Tax Officer, Rajasthan v M/s Binani Cements Ltd. By an
amendment, Entry 1E was inserted which covered „new cement units‟ and
stipulated that large-scale units would be entitled 25% tax exemption. 336 of 2003, decided on 19 February 2014. Consequently,
the Court rejected the contention of the respondent-assessee and held that as
Item 1E concerned the more specific unit, it was excluded in its application from
other general entries. Section 49-E is a provision
governing Apex and Central Societies to whom financial assistance has been
extended by the State Government in the forms stipulated therein. Section 49-E(2)(b)(i) merely stipulates that the CEO of a Central
Society that falls within its ambit, shall be appointed from among the officers of
the cadres maintained under Section 54. 41

As we have noted before, it is settled principal of law that where two

provisions of an enactment appear to conflict, courts must adopt an interpretation
which harmonises, to the best extent possible, both provisions. Enactment A may in itself be clear and
unambiguous. So may enactment B, located elsewhere in the
Act. But if they contradict each other, they cannot both be
applied literally. No word or part of a statute can be construed in
isolation. 42

In Krishan Kumar v State of Rajasthan,19 the Rajasthan State Road

Transport Corporation, Jaipur proposed a scheme in 1977 under Section 68-C of
the Motor Vehicles Act 193920 for the exclusive operation of the disputed road. It was contended that as they were not a “person-in-charge” as defined in
Section 2(31) of the Customs Act 1962, no penalty can be imposed upon them
22

(2002) 2 SCC 95
32

under Section 116 for shortages in offloading the quantity of goods consigned. Consequently, the two provisions subserved different
purposes. The Court held that effect must be given to the amendment, which would be
rendered redundant if the contention of the appellant was accepted. It is the duty
of the court to make such construction of a statute which shall
suppress the mischief and advance the remedy.” 45

In this view, this Court must ensure that neither provision – Section 49-E(2)

nor Sections 54(3)(a) and (b) is reduced to a dead letter of law. The absolute
power conferred upon Cooperative Banks to appoint the CEO was deleted. The term „class of
societies‟ in Section 54(3) excludes Cooperative Banks for the limited
purpose of the appointment of their CEO;
35

(ii)

However, where a Cooperative Bank is a Central Society within the
ambit of Section 49-E(2), the CEO shall be appointed from among the
officers of the cadre constituted and maintained under Section 54,
where such cadre has been constituted. The appointment of
the sixth respondent as CEO was ratified by the Registrar of Societies by his
reply dated 21 August 2017 and accepted by the BoD of the first respondent on
25 August 2017. …………...…...….......………………........J.
[Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud]

…..…..…....…........……………….…........ J.
[Ajay Rastogi]

New Delhi;
March 04, 2020.