for educational use only
Ranjan Karmakar vs The State Of West Bengal on 3 September, 2019

Calcutta High Court (Appellete Side)
Ranjan Karmakar vs The State Of West Bengal on 3 September, 2019
In The High Court At Calcutta Criminal Appellate Jurisdiction Appellate Side CRA 81 of 2009
Ranjan Karmakar
-Vs. The other two accused persons were found not guilty of
the charges brought against them and were acquitted. ( 2) The victim was one Birendra Nath Ghosh
@ Biltey. When they were on Shibpur Main
Road one person amongst 10/11 youths called Biltey by his name. Biltey stopped the scooter and got
down from it. The three accused persons and 7/8 other youths fled by a motor operated boat
(Bhutbhuti) towards Kalyani. Biltey was taken to Chinsurah Hospital immediately where he was
declared 'brought dead' by the doctor who attended to Biltey in the emergency department. ( Then the appellant told Biltey that he would fire at him. At this, Biltey
said 'Ja Ja' which would mean 'I dare you to do whatever you can'. At that point of time, the
appellant fired at Biltey. With the bullet wound Biltey started running away but fell on the ground
after 35 to 40 feet. Later he heard that Biltey expired on the way to the hospital. ( 5) PW6, a
neighbour of Biltey deposed that he was riding a bicycle at the place of occurrence. Suddenly, the appellant took out his
weapon from the waist and fired at Biltey who fell down. He shifted Biltey to the hospital and PW6 and others
also followed him. (6) PW13, Ram Krishna Giri was the friend of Biltey who was riding pillion on the scooter at the
time when the incident occurred. When they
reached Kaylaghat, the appellant called Biltey. Since they were bare handed, out of fear, they did not proceed further. (8) Section 299 IPC defines culpable homicide. It is
done with the intention of causing bodily injury to any person and the bodily injury
intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death;
or iv. It was not a premeditated act on the part of the appellant. It appears from the evidence of PW13 that there was a verbal exchange between
the appellant and the victim for about 3 to 5 minutes after the victim alighted from the scooter and
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/8596893/

3

Ranjan Karmakar vs The State Of West Bengal on 3 September, 2019

went to the appellant. Only one gunshot was fired on the victim. The appellant had ample opportunity of finishing him off by firing more than one shot. It was definitely
an irresponsible and rash act on his part. 17) Further, when a person has a plan to kill someone, it is normal human
conduct that he would execute such plan inasmuch as surreptitious, secretive and clandestine a
manner as is possible so as to eliminate the possibility of having an eye-witness to such an act. (18) We are not inclined to accept the argument put forth by learned counsel for the State that the
offending act on the part of the appellant amounts to murder under the fourth limb of Section 300
IPC. (19) In view of the aforesaid, we are of the considered opinion that a case of murder has not been
made out by the prosecution and to that extent we are not in agreement with the learned Trial
Judge. The essential ingredient of intent to kill, has not been established. Accordingly, we deem it fit and proper to alter the charge against the appellant to one under Section
304 IPC i.e. culpable homicide not amounting to murder and reduce the sentence of the appellant to
10 years of rigorous imprisonment. 5000/- and in default to suffer
rigorous imprisonment for further period of six months. (21) The appeal is accordingly disposed of.