for educational use only
REPORTABLE

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CIVIL APPELLATE JURIS DICTION
Civil Appeal No. His services were confirmed on 4 December 1991. 4

A disciplinary enquiry was convened in which the respondent participated. The

inquiry officer, in his report dated 17 April 1997, noted that the respondent had
unconditionally accepted the charges. On 21 August 2014, the
respondent filed an application 7 before the High Court for suspension of his sentence. In this context, reliance was placed on the decisions of this Court in (i) Dy Director of
Collegiate Education (Admn) v S Nagoor Meera9, (ii) K C Sareen v CBI10, and (iii)
State of Haryana v Balwant Singh11. We are of the view that sufficient cause for condoning the delay has been
made out. Recourse to the above power can be taken
only when the employer has not exercised its disciplinary jurisdiction under
clauses (1) and (2) of Regulation 39; and

(v)

There has been an unexplained delay on the part of the appellant in issuing
a notice to show cause. A criminal miscellaneous application 12 was filed by the respondent for
the grant of bail pending disposal of the criminal appeal. That apart, on a reading of the order of the Single Judge, it is evident that only the
sentence of imprisonment was suspended. 12 Criminal Miscellaneous Application no 13019 of 2014

7

Regulation 39 deals with penalties and the relevant portion for our purposes is
extracted below:
“39. Regulation 39(4)
operates with a non-obstante clause. If honest
public servants are compelled to take orders from proclaimed
corrupt officers on account of the suspension of the
conviction, the fallout would be one of shaking the system
itself...”

15

In State of Haryana v Balwant Singh15, the respondent, who was an employee

of a public transport corporation, caused a death as a result of his rash and negligent
driving. The Corporation had to suffer an award of the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal. In the present case, following the conviction of the respondent by the Special
Judge CBI, the appellant was acting within jurisdiction in issuing a notice to show
cause under Regulation 39(4) of the 1960 Regulations. …………...…...….......………………........J.
[Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud]

…..…..…....…........……………….…........ J.
[Hemant Gupta]
New Delhi;
February 25, 2020

12