for educational use only
REPORTABLE

1

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
CRIMINAL APPEAL No.989 OF 2018
State of Gujarat

…APPELLANT
Versus

Mansukhbhai Kanjibhai Shah

…RESPONDENT

JUDGMENT
N. V. RAMANA
1. Corruption is the malignant manifestation of a malady menacing
the morality of men. The aforesaid incriminating
conversation stood intercepted in an audio video camera set up
by the complainant. The District and Sessions Court
by an order dated 29.11.2017, rejected the application. 1188 of 2017, before the High
Court of Gujarat, at Ahmedabad. The High Court, by the
impugned judgment and order dated 02.02.2018, allowed the
revision and discharged the accused­respondent herein. The senior counsel on behalf of the appellant submitted that the
PC Act is a comprehensive statute which was passed to prevent
corruption and therefore, should be construed liberally as the
legislature intended to include the abovementioned acts, which
harm the public at large, within the ambit of the PC Act. The PC
Act is a social legislation intended to curb illegal activities of
public servants and is designed to be construed so as to advance
its objectives. The Courts, while keeping the public interest in
4

5

mind, must ensure that technicalities should not defeat the
11. The counsel further argued that public function need not be the
exclusive domain of the State; private institutions such as
universities may also perform a public function. 2015) 16 SCC 530 to state
that imparting education to the public is a welfare activity and
hence can be called as an activity done for public good. the Charity Commissioner out of abundant caution. In the present facts, it was a pre­
condition to pay the respondent before obtaining an examination
pass, although he was never formally assigned this task or role. In this regard, we need to observe certain

22. ground rules on interpretation, concerning the PC Act. There is no gainsaying that nations are built upon trust. It is
inevitable that in a democracy one needs to rely on those with
power and influence and to trust them of being transparent and
fair. The golden rule of interpretation for any penal legislation is to
interpret

the

same

strictly,

unless

any

constitutional

considerations are involved, and in cases of ambiguity, the
benefit of the same should enure in favour of the accused. There is no dispute that corruption in
India is pervasive. Presently,
10

11

it can be stated that corruption in India has become an issue
which affects all walks of life. Due to this, the constitutional aspirations of
economic and social justice are sacrificed on a daily basis. It is in
the above context that we need to resolve the issues concerned
26. It
cannot be disputed that where corruption
begins all rights end. These
institutions have the common public duty of granting degrees,
which are ultimately qualifications recognized in society. On the other hand, the learned senior

counsel for

the

respondent, supporting the decision of the High Court in the
impugned judgment, submits that the term “University” as used
in Section 2(c)(xi) of the PC Act, does not include an institution
12

13

which is “deemed to be a University”. The learned senior counsel
submitted that the inclusive definition of a “University” under the
UGC Act is only for the limited purpose of funding, and an
institution which is “deemed to be a University” is not a
University for any other purpose. subscribe to such contention for the reasons provided below. Such an interpretation, by
importing the technical definition under a different Act may not
be feasible herein. It is a settled law that technical definitions
under one statute should not be imported to another statute
which is not in pari materia with the first. For the above purpose, it would be necessary to
look into the concept of “doctrine of pari materia” and
further ascertain whether the given statutes are in
fact pari materia with the ESI Act. The Acts do not
appear to have any overlap in their fields of
operation and have mutually exclusive schemes. The education sector in India has seen a general rise. On a perusal of Section 2(c) of the PC Act, we may observe that
the emphasis is not on the position held by an individual, rather,
it is on the public duty performed by him/her. In the
existing definition the emphasis is on the
authority
employing
and
the
authority
remunerating. corruption in educational institutions was emphasised. A place where all kinds of literature are
universally taught. ( Such bodies were
anciently founded by papal bull or charter, later by
royal charter or act of Parliament. See Oxford Shorter English
Dictionary, 3rd Edn., The present Act (the 1988 Act) envisages
widening of the scope of the definition of the
expression “public servant”. It was brought in force to
purify public administration. In the present case, on a prima­facie evaluation of the statements
of

the

Gaurav

Pragneshkumar

D.

Mehta

Rameshbhai

(the
Trivedi

Vice­Chancellor);
(account

Sumandeep Vidhyapith University) and other

officer

Mr.
of

witnesses it

appears that the present respondent was the final authority with
regard to the grant of admission, collection of fees and donation
amount. At the stage of Section 227, the
Judge has merely to sift the evidence in order to find
out whether or not there is sufficient ground for
proceeding against the accused. Accordingly, the impugned judgment of the High Court is set
aside. ……….........................J.
(N.V.Ramana)
……….........................J.
(Mohan M. Shantanagoudar)
NEW DELHI;
April 27, 2020. Zero tolerance towards corruption should be the top­notch

priority for ensuring system based and policy driven, transparent
and responsive governance. The object and statement of reasons of the Act, 1988 was
intended to make the existing anti­corruption laws more effective
by widening their coverage and by strengthening the provisions. There are number of judicial precedents dealing with the

definition and meaning of corruption. The UGC Act was established by an Act of 1956 to make

provisions for the coordination and determination of standards of
education in universities. Section 3 ­ The Central Government may, on the advice of the
Commission, declare by notification in the Official Gazette, that
any institution for higher education, other than a University,
shall be deemed to be a University for the purposes of this Act,
and on such a declaration being made, all the provisions of this
Act shall apply to such institution as if it were a University
within the meaning of clause (f) of Section 2. The objects
and reasons contained in the Bill leading to passing of the Act
can be taken assistance of, which gives the background in which
the legislation was enacted. When the legislature has introduced
such a comprehensive definition of “public servant” to achieve the
purpose of punishing and curbing the growing menace of
corruption in the society imparting public duty, it would be
apposite not to limit the contents of the definition clause by
construction which would be against the spirit of the statute. Heavy reliance was placed on the judgment in Orissa Lift

Irrigation Corporation Vs. But so far as the present case is concerned, the question for

consideration is the term ‘any’ university in the broader spectrum
to curb corruption in the educational institutions as referred to
under Section 2(c )(xi) of

Act 1988 and the legislature in its

wisdom has referred to the word “any university” which clearly
mandates the university referred to and controlled by its
statutory mechanism referred to under Section 2(f) and deemed
to be university under Section 3 of the UGC Act.