for educational use only
Mohan Maroti Jadhav (In Jail) vs The State Of Maharashtra, Thr. ... on 20 June, 2019
Bench: P.N. Deshmukh
Cri. Mohan Maroti Jadhav,
Aged about 38 years, R/o Ambezari,
Tq. ...RESPONDE

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Shri M.P.Kariya, Advocate for appellant. on 20 June, 2019

(i) That on 18/09/2013, P.I. Ambadkar of Police Station, Ghatanji received an information about
murder of Zimibai, resident of Ambezhari and missing of silver ornaments from her body. Raut immediately rushed to the spot of the incident. Police
also recorded statements of other witnesses. (iv) After investigation, the police filed charge-sheet against the appellant- accused before the Court
of Judicial Magistrate First Class, Ghatanji, which in its turn committed the case to the Court of
Sessions, Yavatmal, as the offence of murder, being exclusively Cri. The impugned
judgment is challenged in this appeal. There are so many missing
links in the chain. The
suspicion can not take the place of real truth. There was no recovery from the accused, neither of the
ornaments nor of the money received from the alleged sale of the ornaments. Appeal 362 of 16.odt acquittal of the accused. The accused was seen following
Zimibai prior to the incident. Lastly, it is submitted that the prosecution has proved its story beyond
reasonable doubt. At the outset,
admittedly, there is no eye-witness to the incident. All these witnesses deposed about selling of ornaments by
the accused to them. Appeal 362 of 16.odt examination of the witnesses that
women in Banjara community wear such types of silver ornaments which are identical in nature. PW/15 - Babita had
also come there to wash clothes. The sons of Zimibai, PW/1 - Mohan and PW/4 - Madhukar were in the house when their mother
left for washing clothes and thereafter they left for Ganpati immersion procession. At that time, Babita reached the
bucket of clothes to their house and informed that their mother had left for field in the morning and
did not come back. As she saw the bucket of clothes of Zimibai still lying there at the site of Nala, she
brought it to their house. The sons of Zimibai along with villagers started frantic search for Zimibai. The ornaments were missing from her body. Immediately, he along with police
rushed to his shop. Goldsmiths PW/11 - Rajendra and PW/2 - Ashok identified him to have sold silver ornaments to
them. The learned Sessions Judge on the basis of identification of the accused by the goldsmiths and
identification of silver articles by the son of Zimibai drew presumption that accused is the only
person who has committed murder of Zimibai. Even, he was not found possessing the booty. The only guesswork by which the accused came to be arrested as villagers
informed the police that the said unknown person might be accused. The accused came to be
convicted on the basis of the following circumstances brought on record by the prosecution against
the accused. Zimibai was going towards Nala and accused followed her. PW/2 - Ashok, PW/3 - Nilesh and PW/11 - Rajendra purchased silver ornaments on that day from
one unknown person. As per the settled law on circumstantial evidence, each and every circumstance is
of such a nature which would lead conclusively to connect the accused liable for the offence. Even if the cash is not recovered from the accused Cri. All of the above circumstances, in our opinion, ought to have been brought on record by the
prosecution to complete the chain of circumstances. The learned
trial Court did not consider the evidence in its correct perspective. Thus, the accused
is entitled to be acquitted. In the circumstances, we pass the following the order:Cri. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/54221007/

6

Mohan Maroti Jadhav (In Jail) vs The State Of Maharashtra, Thr. ... on 20 June, 2019

(iii) The accused is in jail, he shall be released forthwith, if not required in any other
case. (iv) The Muddemal being useless be destroyed.