Bholu & ... vs State Of West Bengal on 5 April, 2019

Calcutta High Court (Appellete Side)
Sk. A.P.P.
Ms. Amita Gaur, Advocate

Heard on

: 05.04.2019

Judgment on

: 05.04. Bholu & ... vs State Of West Bengal on 5 April, 2019

imprisonment for six months more. Bablu (P.W.2), representative of
businessmen who had hired them to transport human hair to Shalimar, Howrah. They physically assaulted Subash and his helper
Gorupada and dragged them inside the white coloured vehicle while Bablu was dragged inside the
Suzuki car. Thereafter, they were drived to Lodhasuli jungle where the miscreants left them tied by
ropes to standing trees. 1, 2 and 17
during T.I. Parade examination. On 13.01.2013, 22 bags of human hair were recovered from a
vehicle bearing no. They were,
however, acquitted of the charge under Section 412 of the Indian Penal Code and co-accused Monir
Mohammad was acquitted of all the charges levelled against them. Hence, their identification of the
appellants in Court cannot be relied upon. The seized articles were not produced and identified
during trial. In fact the Trial Judge acquitted the appellants of the offence under Section 412 IPC. Bholu & ... vs State Of West Bengal on 5 April, 2019

Mr. Maiti, learned Additional Public Prosecutor submitted that P.W. 17 deposed that he and others
had seen the appellants at the P.O. for the first time and thereafter in the police station and at
correctional home. Hence, identification of the appellants by the said witnesses as the dacoits who
committed robbery at the place of occurrence is wholly established. Accordingly, the conviction and sentence do not
call for interference and the appeals are liable to be dismissed. 1,2 and 17 claimed to be
present at the time of alleged dacoity. 6-7 miscreants alighted from the vehicles and had forcibly removed the said
witnesses from the lorry carrying human hair. P.Ws.1 and 17 were forced into the white coloured
vehicle while P.W.2 was forcefully put into the sky coloured Maruti Suzuki car. Although they initially went to Lodhasuli
outpost, PW17 lodged FIR (Ext.9) at Tamluk police station. It is pertinent to note that the learned Magistrates (P.W.23 and
28) who conducted T.I. Parade, had noted their T.I. Parade reports (Exts.11 and 13) that the
appellants had complained that they had been shown to the witnesses at the police station. Trial
Judge, however, relied on the identification of the aforesaid witnesses on the premises that P.W.17
had claimed that they had seen the miscreants for the first time at the place of occurrence. Failure to do so has struck at the root of the prosecution case with regard to the authenticity of the
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/130531429/

3

Sk. No steps were
taken prior to return of the seized alamat to prepare inventory or take photographs/samples of the
seized articles and/or to produce such articles during trial. Efforts have also not been made to ensure
production of such articles during trial.