for educational use only
REPORTABLE
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
CIVIL APPEAL NO. 55 of 1986 have
preferred the present appeal. He
received an advance sale consideration of Rs.26,500/- on the same day. As per
the agreement to sell, the balance sale consideration was required to be paid
within four months. 55/1986 on the file of
Subordinate Judge, Ramachandrapuram against the appellants herein – original
defendants on 23.4.1986 for specific performance of the agreement to sell dated
7.5.1981. It was also contended that the alleged agreement to sell dated 7.5.1981 is not
true and valid and it is a collusive agreement brought into existence by
Nimmalapudi Ramaswami in anticipation of the land acquisition proceedings. Original defendant no.1 prayed to dismiss the suit filed by the plaintiff. 94/1989 (suit for permanent injunction) were
consolidated and heard together. 3.7

Aggrieved by the common judgment and decree passed by the learned

trial Court passed in O.S. No. By the
impugned common judgment and order the High Court has also dismissed
Tr. 4.1

It is further submitted by the learned Advocate appearing on behalf of the

appellants – original defendants that the High Court has materially erred in not
properly appreciating the fact that the learned trial Court rightly dismissed the
suit on the ground of limitation applying Article 54 of the Limitation Act. 8

4.6

Making the above submissions, it is prayed to allow the present appeal. The present appeal is vehemently opposed by Mrs. K. Sarada Devi,

learned Advocate appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff – respondent
herein. 5.2

It is further submitted by the learned Advocate appearing on behalf of the

respondent herein - original plaintiff that so far as the execution of agreement
to sell dated 7.5.1981 by original land owner – Nimmalapudi Ramaswami and
that the plaintiff was put in possession there are concurrent findings of fact by
the learned trial Court as well as the High Court, which are on appreciation of
evidence on record. It is
submitted that however it was their defence that the said agreement to sell was
to defeat the land acquisition proceedings. 962/2013 by which the High Court specifically
confirmed the findings on issue nos. In reply, learned Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellants –

original defendants has submitted that if the impugned judgment and order
passed by the High Court is set aside and the property/land in question is
reverted back to the appellants -, the appellants are ready and willing to pay a
handsome amount to the plaintiff. However, before any further
steps could be taken by the plaintiff and the original vendor, the suit property
was subjected to the acquisition by the State Government. A similar representation was made by the
original vendor also. Therefore, the learned trial Court as such rightly believed the

execution of the agreement to sell dated 7.5.1981 as well as handing over of
possession to the plaintiff. At this stage, it is
required to be noted that under the agreement to sell it was for the vendor to
settle all the disputes in the property. were held to be in favour of the plaintiff.