for educational use only
Arvind Parmar @ Bunty Raja And 2 ... vs State Of U.P. on 1 October, 2019

Allahabad High Court
Arvind Parmar @ Bunty Raja And 2 ... vs State Of U.P. on 1 October, 2019
Bench: Ram Krishna Gautam

HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD

A.F.R.
Judgement Reserved on 18.09.2019
Judgement Delivered on 01.10.2019
Case :- CRIMINAL APPEAL No. - It was passed on the basis of surmises
and conjectures. Subsequently, arrest of Arvind Parmar
@ Bunty Raja, appellant no.1, Jeetu Parihar, Rajan, appellant no.2, and Naval Ahirwar, was shown
to have been made by the Police on 14.8.2012, whereas Shivam Tiwari, Arvind Pal and Raheem
Khan, appellant no.3, said to have fled from the spot. Hence, this Criminal Appeal with
above prayer. Informant expressed his
suspicion of theft, over them. Case Crime No.1150 of 2012, under Sections
457 & 380 IPC was got registered, against Gangaram and Kalyan, on 11.06.2012. A Police Team led by him, with the
Inspector, proceeded for Chandi Mata Temple. Prem Lata Jain,
Pramod Kumar, Akhilesh Kumar Sharma, Smt. Gita, Satendra Singh Parmar, Balram Pachauri,
Niraj Nayak, Sanjay Tiwari and many others reached on the spot, who identified those apprehended
persons to be residents of above locality. On the basis of investigation, chargesheet was filed and after hearing learned Public Prosecutor as
well as learned counsel for defence. Charges for offence, punishable under Section 380, 457, 411 and
413 IPC were framed. Charges were readover and explained to the accused persons, who pleaded not
guilty and requested for trial. After hearing over quantum of sentence, impugned sentence was passed. two
chains, weight about 70 gm, two pair ear rings (Jhumka), weight about 20 gm, six rings of male and
five rings of female, weight about 30 gm, and one Bedi of 02 gm, all of gold, and 20 silver coins, ten
pairs anklet, Kardhan (an ornament of waist) of silver, weight about 1.5 kg, one chain of Ventmen
jewellery and Rs.2,70,000/-, in cash, kept in the Almirah, was taken away by the the thieves. Construction work at upper storeys of his house was being carried out. Accused, Naval,
confessed to have stolen two rings and Rs.20,000/- in cash, from his house. Thenafter, he came back and not gone there
again nor signed recovery memo. Upon one Bundle, Crime Number 1150/12 was written. Receipt of stolen articles were with him, but this fact was not written by him in the report. Currency notes appear to be same, which are available with everyone. In the
testimony, this witness has stated that he never identified recovered articles in the court nor
identified accused persons. His statement could not be recorded in the court. Neither any recovery was made before this witness nor any specific mark of
identification/denomination of alleged recovered article/currency notes was there nor any recovery
memo was signed by him nor the same were produced before the court during trial nor this witness
was previously acquainted with accused persons. From their possession ornaments of gold and silver as well as cash
was recovered. Many persons, including Akhilesh Sharma, informant, reached on the spot. Out of stolen articles, two rings
of gold and Rs.20,000/- were recovered. He did not remember whether copy of the recovery memo had been
provided to the accused persons or not. The recovered articles were not produced before him. After receiving copy of the report, Chik F.I.R., he got recorded statement of the scribe and
that of the complainant, namely, Akhilesh Kumar, thenafter, inspected the place of incident, the
house of the complainant, wherein occurrence of theft said to have taken place and prepared the
site-plan on the spot, which was paper no. 12ka/5, in his handwriting and signature. Omveer, SHO Uday Bhan Singh, SI Subhash Yadav, Const. Statement of Uday Bhan Singh and
other police personnel accompanying him, SI Subhash Chandra Yadav, Const. Bahadur Singh, SI
Varun Pratap Singh, Const. Aditya Kumar and Saroj Kumar were recorded. Same was paper no-7Ka and was exhibited as
Exhibit Ka7. Thenafter, recorded statement of Neeraj Nai and Rajesh Sharma. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/63012749/

6

Arvind Parmar @ Bunty Raja And 2 ... vs State Of U.P. on 1 October, 2019

In his cross-examination, this witness has stated that he did not arrest the accused Raju @ Rajendra
Soni, nor did recover any booty from him. Any specific mark of identification of stolen article was also
not mentioned in the report. Neither identification parade of the accused-persons nor of articles was
conducted. In the first information report, there was suspicion on the labours, who were working in the
house of the complainant, whereas appellants, herein, were made accused persons. Thus, testimony of this witness appears to be shaky and is not worth credit, thereby, does not
support prosecution case in any way. 26, Amar Singh, in his testimony, has stated that while he was posted as Head
Moharrir at Lalitpur Kotwali on 11.6.2012, complainant Akhlesh Kumar Sharma had given an
application, about this incident, on which he had lodged case crime no. 1150/2012 u/s 459, 380 IPC
vs Ganga Ram and others. Chik FIR was in his handwriting, under his signature, which was marked
as Exhibit Ka-9. Other than the complainant, no one else had
accompanied him to the police station. In written complaint, which was given for registration of first
information report, name of any accused person was not mentioned nor there was any eye witness
account of occurrence nor there was any mark of identification of accused. Hence, the very essential requirement of theft, taking of articles in
above theft, with dishonest intention, and possession of the same could not be proved by the
prosecution beyond doubt. Theft or an
intention to commit theft does actually carry out his intention to commit theft. If a person is charged of house breaking and theft and the commission of theft is
established, it would not follow that commission of other offence of house-breaking has also been
established. Regarding presumption under illustration (a) to Section 114, Evidence Act, may also
attract a graver offence, like one, under 457 IPC, where the accused is found in possession of articles
stolen and obtained by house-breaking, it cannot be inferred that he has committed an offence of
house-breaking and theft. Intention to take this dishonestly must be proved. In present case, offence of theft was got registered by informant against unknown thieves. Hence, learned Trial court failed to appreciate facts and law placed before it and thereby passed
judgment of conviction and sentences therein, against evidence on record. In view of what has been discussed above, this Criminal Appeal deserves to be allowed. They shall be released forthwith, if not wanted
in any other case.