for educational use only
Reportable
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
CIVIL APPEAL NO. 900 OF 2012
OIL INDIA LIMITED

...APPELLANT
VERSUS

SOUTH EAST ASIA MARINE
ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTIONS
LTD. ( 11 of 2006 passed
1

by the Gauhati High Court, wherein the High Court allowed
the appeal preferred by the Respondent under Section 37 of
the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter the
“Arbitration Act”), and set aside the arbitral award dated
19.12.2003. Although, the contract was
initially only for a period of two years, the same was extended
for two successive periods of one year each by mutual
agreement, and finally the contract expired on 04.10.2000. On the other hand, the
minority held that the executive orders do not come within the
ambit of Clause 23 of the Contract. In

response,

the

learned

counsel

for

the

Respondent,

supporting the findings of the High Court, submits that
a. the award passed by the Arbitral Tribunal is contrary to
the terms of the contract and essentially re­writes the
contract. b. Overlooking the terms and conditions of a contract is
violative of Section 28 of the Arbitration Act and thus the
tribunal has exceeded its jurisdiction. We have heard the learned counsels for the parties and
perused the materials on record. Recently, this Court in Dyna
Technologies Pvt. Section 34 is different in its approach and
cannot be equated with a normal appellate
jurisdiction. This is according to Rule of Interpretation. The word, which makes it
inconsistent or unworkable, should be
avoided. 23 requires liberal interpretation
for interpreting the expression ‘law’ or
change in law etc. The High Court, in its reasoning, suggests that Clause 23 is
akin to a force majeure clause. We need to understand the
utility and implications of a force majeure clause. Section 56 of the Contract Act stands as follows:
56. Contract to do act afterwards becoming
impossible or unlawful—A contract to do an
act which, after the contract is made, becomes
impossible, or, by reason of some event which
the promisor could not prevent, unlawful,
becomes void when the act becomes
impossible or unlawful. Mr. Chandler had
paid part consideration for the same. As Mr. Webster
insisted on payment of his consideration, the case was brought
to the Court. The UK Parliament
took notice of the aforesaid judgment and legislated Law
Reform (Frustrated Contracts) Act, 1943. The aforesaid clause provides the basis of restitution for
‘failure of basis’. However, we are of the
opinion that the aforesaid case and ratio may not be applicable
herein as the evidence on record does not suggest that the
parties had agreed to a broad interpretation to the clause in
question. CCO/FC/0040/95) was for drilling oil wells and
auxiliary operations. The party, before entering the
tender process, entered the contract after mitigating the risk of
such an increase. Such price fluctuations
cannot be brought under Clause 23 unless specific language
points to the inclusion. The interpretation of the Arbitral Tribunal to expand the
meaning of Clause 23 to include change in rate of HSD is not a
possible interpretation of this contract, as the appellant did
not introduce any evidence which proves the same. 673 of 2012,
the aforesaid matter is disposed of in the aforesaid terms. ..............................................J.
(N.V. RAMANA)

..............................................J.
(MOHAN M. SHANTANAGOUDAR)

..............................................J.
(AJAY RASTOGI)
NEW DELHI;
MAY 11, 2020.