2, Sealdah, District- South 24-Parganas
thereby convicting the accused person/appellant herein under Sections 392/397/411 of the Indian
Penal Code, 1860 in connection with Sessions Trial No. 03 dated January 17, 2008 under Section 392 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and
sentencing the accused/appellant to suffer rigorous imprisonment for five years and to pay a fine of
Rs. 1000/- in default to simple imprisonment for two months for the offence punishable under
Section 392 IPC. , WB 23A- 3200 and they visited
Noapara, Koikhali, Hatghora and last day at Raghunathpur for delivery of the goods of their
company and collected about a sum of Rs.25,410/-. they started
for their office in the said vehicle. Road) and approaching the place in slow speed. The driver did not raise any protest and the complainant
in order to save his life handed over the entire money to the said accused. At that time a police
van reached there and the accused was apprehended. Prosecution further case is that a sum of Rs. P.C, transferred the same for trial and
disposal to the Court of Additional District & Sessions Judge, FTC-II, Sealdah, District- South 24
Parganas hereinafter referred to as the trial Court. Mr. P.S. Bhattacharyya learned Amicus Curiae appearing for the appellant contended that the
impugned judgment and order of conviction and sentence is completely based on surmises and
conjectures as there is no legal evidence to hold the appellant guilty of charges under Section 392
IPC together with charge under Sections 397 and 411 IPC. Rakh Pal Singh Mehra @ Rikky, P.W. 1 the FIR maker testified the fact in respect of the incident
taking place in the month of January at about 7.30 P.M. to 8.00 P.M. to the effect that he himself
and one Sukumar Sharma were employed under distributor of Hindustan Liver and were on their
duty to take the goods/articles of the distributor by loading the same in a Auto and to deliver the
goods to different shops. The Auto took a
turn to a narrow lane and was moving in a slow speed and then two persons entered into the Auto . The person who
entered into the seat in the front part of the Auto showed PW1 one bomb and a 'napala' and told him
to hand over the money whatever he had. Out of fear, the PW1 handed over the money to that
person. Thereafter, said person told the driver to take turn towards the opposite direction. The incident was
narrated to the local people. The FIR Exhibit-1 thus finds corroboration by its maker. According to him incident
took place on 17th January, 2008. In the evening, Sukumar
rang up from the public booth and informed him about the incident and PW4 was called by him to
Sinthi Police Station. He has identified the accused persons during trial. Md. Jane Alam P.W. 5 has been declared hostile by the prosecution. So obviously the prosecution
does not want to rely on him. S.I. Gouridas Mukherjee P.W. 7 of Chitpur P.S. was on petrol duty on 17.01.2008 between 7.00 P.M.
and 7.10 P.M. when he saw a gathering at 21, Dum Dum Road and went ahead towards gathering
and saw a three wheeler vehicle standing and hue and cry were going on. He also found the cover of 'napala' with him. Then he asked his name and he identified as
Md. Salim. He has also proved the 'napala' cover, shawl with the packet that was
seized in his presence. Accused Abhijit Mondal was
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/55892583/

4

Md. Salim @ Shamim vs The State Of West Bengal on 23 May, 2019

also identified as the driver of the said three wheeler. On 23.01.2008 while in police custody accused Md. Salim
made disclosure a statement and on the basis of his statement 'Nepala' was recovered and on usual
investigation, I.O. submitted charge-sheet. Although the impugned judgment is confronted with certain discrepancies and contradictions in
evidence on record it has to be remembered that they do not necessarily demolish the testimony of
the prosecution witnesses. The technicalities of law also do not necessarily upset the finding of facts
and the order of conviction. Thus, this point is answered accordingly. To this extent the said decision may be accepted in this case. Naturally Section 412 has no
application in a case when the principal offence is robbery. I am not in agreement with Mr. Bhattacharyya learned counsel for the appellants that the charge
under Section 397 IPC is not tenable in view of the fact that ingredients of the charge has not been
proved inasmuch as there is no injury report in the given case so as to find that the offence of
dacoity or the robbery has been committed with the deadly weapon used to hold out threat with dire
consequences and to create fear of his life at the time of committing offence of robbery. It is settled
principle of law that to attract Section 397 IPC the offence of dacoity or robbery has been
committed. Taking cue from the decision referred to above, since the complainant was robbed of his money and
the same was recovered from the spot itself, charge under Section 411 IPC would not be
maintainable. In the result, the appeal being CRA 239 of 2016 is dismissed with the above modification.