for educational use only
REPORTABLE

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CIVILAPPELLATE JURISDICTION
CIVIL APPEAL NO.196 OF 2011

D.B. BASNETT (D) Through LRs

… Appellant

versus
THE COLLECTOR
East District, Gangtok, Sikkim & Anr. …Respondents

JUDGMENT
SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.

1. 2 sought to raise a defence to the suit of the bar of

limitation. Thus they were enjoying peaceful possession of the subject
matter property as a consequence thereof. The trial court dismissed the suit vide judgment and order dated

31.10.2006, both on grounds of limitation as well as substantive merits. Such a case of adverse possession was opined to be difficult
for the State Government to plead and in any case, on facts, had never
been pleaded. The
actual signed and stamped receipts were also not placed on record. The
inconsistent stand of the Government claiming that they had acquired the
land while still collecting land revenue for the same was also noted. The land
revenue records were stated not to be of such significance in the face of
these documents, but sympathising with the predicament of the appellant
and recognising the weaker position of the Government in the entire
dispute, it was observed that the Government had no justification to keep
holding on to the land revenue as collected from the appellant. The matter was, however, taken up for hearing for the first
5

time on 2.5.2019. On hearing learned counsel for the parties, at the
request of the learned counsel for the respondents, time was given to
scrutinize the record and show to the Court how a sum of Rs.62,645 was
withdrawn by the Collector in cash (as alleged and as contended), and
which document(s) evidenced payment to late Man Bahadur Basnett. An affidavit was filed in August, 2019, which was analysed on

27.8.2019, and it was found that there was neither any proof of the
Collector having withdrawn cash to the tune of Rs.62,645 from the
account, nor any receipt from late Man Bahadur Basnett acknowledging
the payment, except the stated covering letter for the receipt. We are in complete agreement with this view and for this reason

also the plea of adverse possession really does not survive. On the aspect of the compensation, only a covering
letter is available, and not the actual receipt. We even gave a further opportunity to
the authorities to show, as to from which account this compensation was
withdrawn by the Collector, but it appears that there is no proof even of
the withdrawal of the amount, much less payment of the compensation. There is, thus, absence of both primary and secondary evidence. These provisions, as they read, of the said Act, thus, are also
required to be so followed. 2013) 1 SCC 353) in a welfare State, and a
Constitutional right under Article 300A of the Constitution. The State cannot dispossess a citizen
of his property except in accordance with the procedure
established by law. Reliance is placed on the judgment in Hindustan
Petroleum Corporation Ltd. v. Darius Shapur Chennai (2005)
7 SCC 627,wherein this Court held that:
“ 6. … (emphasis originally supplied)
In Jilubhai Nanbhai Khachar v. State of Gujarat, (1995)
Supp. There has to be no deprivation
without any sanction of law. In a case where the demand for justice is so compelling,
a constitutional Court would exercise its jurisdiction with a
view to promote justice, and not defeat it (P.S. Sadasivaswamy v.
State of T.N. (1975) 1 SCC 152). The result of the aforesaid would be that the respondents have

failed to establish that they had acquired the land in accordance with law
and paid due compensation. Would they still like to retain the land by issuing a proper notification, or
would they like to surrender possession of the land. ...……………………………J.
[Sanjay Kishan Kaul]

...……………………………J.
[K.M. Joseph]
New Delhi.