for educational use only
Gopali Prasad vs State Of U.P. on 12 April, 2019

Allahabad High Court
Gopali Prasad vs State Of U.P. on 12 April, 2019
Bench: Chandra Dhari Singh

HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH

A.F.R.
Reserved on 27.03.2019
Delivered on 12.04.2019
In Chamber

Case :- CRIMINAL APPEAL No. - Advocate

Hon'ble Chandra Dhari Singh,J.

1. At the time of loot, miscreants Mahadev, Gopali and
Ram Kumar were identified in torch light. At this chick FIR was scribed, Case Crime No. Recovery of lantern and torch were prepared as Ext. Site plan of the place
of recovered articles Ext. Identification memo of the parade in respect of Jamuna Prasad held on
18.07.1990 Ext. Accused-appellants pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried. Nirmala Devi, P.W. 4 Krishna Mohan Singh,
these are the witnesses of recovery as well as witnesses of fact while P.W.5 Sub Inspector Ram
Sumujh Verma, is the Investigating Officer of the case, P.W.6 Sub Inspector J.N. Singh (earlier
Investigating Officer of the case), P.W. 7 Dr. S.C. Katiyar, who proved injury reports of injured Ext. Ka-12 to Ka-22, P.W.8 Ajai Deep Singh, the then Executive Magistrate, Unnao, who proved
identification parade memo Ext. P.W.9 Constable Mohan Lal, who proed chik report Ext. In defence no evidence either oral or documentary has been produced in support of their
case. He further submits that the trial court has not followed the
ingredients of sections 394, 395, 396 IPC while holding the appellants guilty, therefore, the
judgment and orders passed by the court below deserves to be set aside and quashed and further
appellants deserve to be acquitted from the charges levelled against them. In support of his learned counsel for the appellants relied on the following case laws:
(i). Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/167000592/

3

Gopali Prasad vs State Of U.P. on 12 April, 2019

7. He further deposed that he was sleeping outside the house in a Chhapper
and on hearing the hue and cry of the family members, he woke up and in the torch light he
recognized to some of the dacoits, namely, Mahadev (died during trial), Ram Kumar-appellant no.2
and Gopali-appellant no.1 (died during the pendency of present criminal appeal. The source of light
has been mentioned as lantern and torch. He in his deposition has stated that
his family and the family of the complainant are living in a common house, rooms are different and
courtyard is the same. During the course of identification
parade in jail he also recognized accused Jamuna Prasad and Om Prakash. At the relevant point of time, he was posted as Station
Officer, P.S. Bihar, District Unnao. P.W.7 Dr. S.C. Katiyar, at the relevant point of time was posted as Incharge, Medical Officer,
Primary Health Centre, Purwa, District Unnao. P.W.10 Sub Inspector Ramesh Chandra Shukla is also the witness of fact. He deposed before the
trial court that on 16.12.1990 the investigation of case crime no. 76 of 1990 was later on entrusted to
him. He further deposed that on 28.01.1991 identification parade was conducted in presence of
Magistrate and on 30.01.1991 he submitted the charge-sheet against accused Mahadev, Om Prakash,
Sri Pal, Jang Bahadur and Ganga Prasad. P.W.11 M.P. Srivastava is the witness of the Fact. After close of the prosecution evidence, the statements of the accused persons under section 313
of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been recorded. The accused persons stated before the trial
court that they have been falsely implicated in the present, false recovery of golden and silver
ornaments have been shown from their possession. Before coming to the conclusion, it is necessary to have a glance at the ingredients of sections
395, 396 and 397 IPC:
395. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/167000592/

5

Gopali Prasad vs State Of U.P. on 12 April, 2019

397. Robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt.--If, at the time of
committing robbery or dacoity, the offender uses any deadly weapon, or causes grievous hurt to any
person, or attempts to cause death or grievous hurt to any person, the imprisonment with which
such offender shall be punished shall not be less than seven years. According to the Oxford Dictionary, Dacoity means - an act of violent robbery committed by an
armed gang. There is no difference between robbery and dacoity except in the number of offenders. It is necessary that all the persons should share the common intention of committing robbery. On a plain reading of Section 391, IPC it would appear that in order that a dacoity can be said to
have been committed, it is necessary that five or more persons conjointly commit a robbery or
attempt to commit robbery. In the present case,
eight persons have been made an accused for committing the said offence. 1, 2 and 3 guilty for
committing dacoity. The sureties are discharged from their liabilities. They need not surrender,
in case, they are not wanted in some other case.