for educational use only
State vs Vijay Wamanpatil & Ors. Vs Vijay ... on 14 March, 2019

Bombay High Court
State vs Vijay Wamanpatil & Ors. Uma, Flat No.3,
Kashinath Dhuri Road,
Dadar, Mumbai No. 28
to 3)

.. Appellant
]
]
]
]
]
]

.. Respondents
(Original Accused Nos.1

Mr. CORAM
: N. J. JAMADAR, J.
RESERVED ON : 28TH DFEBRUARY, 2019
PRONOUNCED ON : 14TH MARCH 2019
JUDGMENT :

1. The said chawl was demolished and a new building came to be constructed thereon. Whereas Flat No.6 was allotted by the landlord to one Smt. The statements of witnesses were recorded. After finding the
complicity of the accused, the charge-sheet came to be lodged against the accused for the aforesaid
offences. During the course of trial, the learned ACMM, recorded evidence of in all five witnesses including
Suresh Narayan Kawali (PW-2), the son of Shraddha Talekar PS 2/9 3 CRI.APPEAL-294-1996.J.doc
the landlord and Balasaheb Jadhav (PW-5), the I.O.. The accused did not lead any evidence in their
defence which consisted of denial and false implication. After appraisal of the evidence and material
on record, the learned ACMM was persuaded to acquit the accused. Being aggrieved, the State has
preferred this appeal. It is pertinent to note that the first informant could not be examined as she died on 6th June 1991. Mrunalini Naik was not in possession of the premises. Secondly, the
learned ACMM also found that the consent terms (Exh. P-3), which were placed on record to show
that the Accused no.2 was given only a part of Flat No.4, were unworthy of reliance as there was
over-writing and interpolation therein and the same was not proved by leading cogent evidence. Judge of Small Causes Shraddha Talekar PS 4/9 5
CRI.APPEAL-294-1996.J.doc Court that :
"According to defendant No.1 Mrunalini Naik is put in possession, I fail to
understand as to why the affidavit of said Mrunalini G. Naik has not been filed before
the Court. Without delving into the binding efficacy of the judgment of the Civil Court upon the
Criminal Court, in the facts of the case, it becomes explicitly clear that in the face of aforesaid
observations of the learned Judge, Court of Small Causes, no material was placed on record to
establish the factum of possession of Smt. Mrunalini Shraddha Talekar PS 5/9 6 CRI.APPEAL-294-1996.J.doc Naik was in
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/69338809/

3

State vs Vijay Wamanpatil & Ors. The aforesaid inferences drawn by the learned ACMM are borne out by the record. P-5), whereby the first informant was shown to
be inducted into Flat No.6, by their own intrinsic evidence, were found unworthy of placing implicit
reliance. Surprisingly, the statement of Satish Kawali (PW-2) came to be recorded on 4th May 1984, despite
his assertion that he was at the Police Station all the while when the report of the first informant
came to be recorded. Hence, the appeal deserves to be dismissed. The bail bonds furnished by the accused stand cancelled.