for educational use only
REPORTABLE
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
CIVIL APPEAL NO(s). 9346 OF 2019
(arising out of SLP (Civil) No(s). AND ANOTHER
Signature Not Verified
Digitally signed by
RAJNI MUKHI
Date: 2020.01.06
17:41:30 IST
Reason:

1

…RESPONDENT(S)

JUDGMENT
NAVIN SINHA, J.
The present appeals arise from a common order dated
30.08.2019, passed in three separate miscellaneous appeals filed by
the appellants before the High Court affirming an order of
injunction. Only the
formal execution of contract documents remained as a formality. The plaintiff
was ready and willing with the balance amount. Alternately, it was
claimed that there existed a concluded oral contract between the
parties. Creation of third party rights
would lead to further litigation. The contention that execution of the agreement
remained a formality was disputed. Despite the full awareness and knowledge as far back as

30.03.2018 and refund through RTGS of Rs.2.16 crores on
31.03.2018 itself, the plaintiff published a public notice only on
03.04.2018 advising all concerned not to deal with the property
which was duly replied and refuted by another public notice dated
04.04.2018 published by the defendants. In commercial dealings with high stake matters delay is vital. Dr. A.M. Singhvi, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of

the plaintiff, submitted that his clients at no stage had declined to
meet the Income Tax liabilities of the defendant sister concerns, as
part of the consideration amount. The negotiations were widespread
over time both by WhatsApp messages and exchange of e­mails. These collectively have correctly been interpreted to hold a prima
facie case in favour of the plaintiff. The fact that the e­mail dated 30.03.2018
referred to the enclosure as a draft MoU cannot be decisive as it has
to be understood on a cumulative assessment of facts. 2000) 6 SCC 420, Moharwal Khewaji Trust
(Regd.), We have been addressed by the counsel for the parties at

length, as also have been taken through the several WhatsApp
messages and e­mails exchanged. We have also considered the
respective submissions. The grant of relief in a
10

suit for specific performance is itself a discretionary remedy. The
discretion at this stage has to be exercised judiciously and not
arbitrarily. Irreparable injury, however, does not
mean that there must be no physical possibility of
repairing the injury, but means only that the injury
must be a material one, namely one that cannot be
adequately compensated by way of damages. The file size of the
attachment to the mails has varied from 48­50­52­48­57­56 KBs
indicating suggestions and corrections from time to time. The plaintiff was further aware on
30.03.2018 itself that the deal with it had virtually fallen through as
informed to the escrow agent. Defendant no.2 paid Rs.17.69 crores and Rs.2.20
crores towards the income tax dues of the defendant the same day,
as part of the consideration amount. No effort was made by the plaintiff
to again remit the sum by RTGS immediately or the next day. The first ground which the High Court took note
of is the delay in filing the suit. If the plaintiff
contended a concluded contract and/or an oral contract by
inference, leaving an executed document as a mere formality, the
onus lay on the plaintiff to demonstrate that the parties were ad­
idem having discharged their obligations as observed in Brij Mohan
(supra). Resultantly the orders of
injunction are set aside. Nothing in the present order shall be

deemed or construed as any expression of opinion or observation by
us at the final hearing of the suit which naturally will have to be
decided on its own merits.