for educational use only
The State Of West Bengal vs Ashim Ghosh on 3 July, 2019

Calcutta High Court (Appellete Side)
The State Of West Bengal vs Ashim Ghosh on 3 July, 2019
1
Form No. The case of the prosecution briefly stated is that on 4th August, 1980 at about 8:30 a.m. one S.I.
Aswini Kumar Nath (PW-1) along with S.I. Prafulla Kumar Das (PW-2) and Dudh Nath Mahato,
Rakshok/Constable of RPF (PW-3) visited the shop of the respondent in Government Colony on
Station Road at Bansberia, Hooghly. The said Tie Bars were labeled and seized and a seizure list was
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/126200751/

1

The State Of West Bengal vs Ashim Ghosh on 3 July, 2019

prepared. The charge was prepared on 17th June, 1985 and the trial commenced. In course of trial, the
prosecution examined the following witnesses, namely, PW-1, S.I. Aswini Kumar Nath, PW-2, S.I.
Prafulla Kumar Das, PW-3, Constable/Rakshak Dudh Nath Mahato, PW-4, Ram Gopal Paul, Green
Vegetable Vendor at Bansberia Green Vegetable Market, PW-5, Paltu Ghosh, resident of Bansberia
Station Road, PW-6, Subhas Chandra Paul, A.S.I. R.P.C. and PW-7, Dilip Kumar Das, Railway
employee and expert on materials. He has stated in evidence that the said Tie
Bars are of a nature that are only used by the Railways Engineering Department and none else. Paltu Ghosh is himself an unemployed resident of the area concerned. No contemporaneous evidence has either been led in the trial or obtained by the prosecution to
show the exact physical presence of the accused inside the shoproom or his ownership or possession
of the same. The possession of the accused in so far as the said Railway property is concerned, has
not thus been established beyond reasonable doubt, by the prosecution. The said decision is in the case of Ramanand Yadav - Vs. - The paramount consideration of the
Court is to ensure that miscarriage of justice is prevented. The principle to be
followed by the appellate court considering the appeal against the judgment of
acquittal is to interfere only when there are compelling and substantial reasons for
doing so. If the impugned judgment is clearly unreasonable and relevant and
convincing materials have been unjustifiably eliminated in the process, it is
compelling reason for interference. State of Maharashtra, Ramesh Babulal Doshi - Vs. State of Haryana, Raj Kishore Jha - Vs. - Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/126200751/

3

The State Of West Bengal vs Ashim Ghosh on 3 July, 2019

Applying the aforesaid test, this Court finds that the evidence on record is such that the offense
against the accused has not been proved. In any event the trial occurred in 1987 and acquittal occurred in the same year. Let a copy of this judgment be sent down the Court below for information. Urgent photostat certified copy of this order, if applied for, be supplied to the parties as early as
possible.