for educational use only
Shio Shankar Dubey vs The State Of Bihar on 9 May, 2019

Supreme Court of India
Shio Shankar Dubey vs The State Of Bihar on 9 May, 2019
Author: A Bhushan
Bench: K Joseph, A Bhushan
REPORTABLE
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.1617 of 2014

SHIO SHANKAR DUBEY & ORS. ...APPELLANT(S)
VERSUS

STATE OF BIHAR

...RESPONDENT(S)

J U D G M E N T

ASHOK BHUSHAN,J.
This appeal has been filed by the three appellants challenging the judgment of High Court of Patna
dated 16.07.2013, by which Criminal Appeal (DB) No. Raj Keshwar Singh was
armed with a double barell gun. Shio Shankar Dubey opened fire but none received any injury. The accused persons
thereafter fled away towards south. On the basis of fardbeyan given at the place of
occurrence by informant, First Information Report was registered against 05 accused. The prosecution, to prove its case, produced 15 witnesses. PW11, informant, fully supported the
prosecution case. Formal
witnesses were also produced by the prosecution. Post mortem
report was prepared as Ext.4. Ram
Pravesh Dubey having not been proved to be on the spot, could not have been convicted. It is further
submitted that inquest report mentioned a bullet injury whereas in the post mortem report, no
bullet injury was found. The skull being crushed in a manner and
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/193977664/

2

Shio Shankar Dubey vs The State Of Bihar on 9 May, 2019

bones being fractured, impression was drawn that bullet entered from behind the skull and came
out of the mouth, which in no manner can be said to be fatal to the prosecution case. In spite of thorough cross-examination, the witnesses could not be shaken. The mere fact that deceased
was brother of the informant and PW13 is the husband of the niece of the deceased and does not
impeach their evidence in any manner. The mere fact that witness is related does not lead to
inference that such witness is an interested witness. As to the contention raised on behalf of the appellant that the witness was the
widow of the deceased and was, therefore, highly interested and her statement be
discarded, we may observe that a close relative who is a natural witness cannot be
regarded as an interested witness. However, we are not attempting any sweeping
generalisation. Each case must be judged on its own facts. 29, 30 and 38, which are to the following effect:29. In our
judgment, a witness who is a relative of the deceased or victim of a crime cannot be
characterised as interested. His evidence, however, must be scrutinised carefully. Close relationship of
witness with the deceased or victim is no ground to reject his evidence. We, thus, reject the submission of the appellant that PW11 and PW13 being related to deceased,
their evidence cannot be relied. The statement of PW5 has been brought on the record. PW5 in his
statement stated that at 9 Oclock in the morning, he had gone to Sasaram and when he went about
fifty steps south to Rouza Road from G.T. Road, he saw the accused persons namely Ram Nandan
Dusadh, Dudnath Dusadh, Jamadar Dusadh and Shankar Dubey fleeing on Rouza Road going from
the west to the east. The mere fact that he did not mention name of Ram Pravesh
Dubey cannot lead to the inference that Ram Pravesh Dubey was not involved in the incident. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
(i) Lacerated wound 2" X 1" with commuted fracture of occipital bone in two multiple
pieces at back of head. Some fragments of bone had pierced into brain covering. There was collection of blood clot outside and inside durameter. There was no blackening of
margin of surrounding area or no tatooing. (iv) Abrasion 1" x ½" of upper lip right to mid-line. i), (ii) and (iii) are grievous in nature caused by hard blunt substance,
may be lathi and Lohbanda. Time elapsed since death within 12 hours. Multiple fracture of right mallar bone, nosal bone and right maxilla
has also been noticed. Bikram Dusadh had been jailed three to four days earlier to this
occurrence. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/193977664/

6

Shio Shankar Dubey vs The State Of Bihar on 9 May, 2019

19. At 9.30 AM, the fardbeyan has been proved. The inquest report and the seizure
report were provided at 10.00 AM and 10.15 AM respectively on the spot. 72, 73 and 74, the trial court records following:72. The F.I.R. was sent to the court on 17- 5-80. Admittedly, it was morning court and
the court closes at 12 noon. Sot this cannot be a case of false
implication. Both the Courts below have not committed any error in convicting
the appellants and sentencing them. ......................J.
( ASHOK BHUSHAN ) ......................J.
( K.M. JOSEPH ) New Delhi, May 09, 2019.