for educational use only
Kolkata Municipal Corporation & ... vs Bimal Kumar Shah on 17 December, 2019

Calcutta High Court
Kolkata Municipal Corporation & ... vs Bimal Kumar Shah on 17 December, 2019
1

IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA
Civil Appellate Jurisdiction
ORIGINAL SIDE
BEFORE:
The Hon'ble Justice Soumen Sen,
And
The Hon'ble Justice Saugata Bhattacharyya
A.P.O. 523 of 2017
W.P. No. BIMAL KUMAR SHAH

A.P.O. 210 of 2018
W.P. No. For the Appellant

: Mr. Alak Kumar Ghosh, Adv. The land in question comprises a plot of land of more or less 2 bighas
18 kathas 6 chitaks and 40 square feet together with a bungalow and a tank. Birinchi was, all along, exercising his right as owner of the land and had paid off the municipal taxes
whilst also remaining in possession of the property. In the writ petition, it is alleged that, during the
year 2009, an attempt was made by the respondent authorities at the behest of some influential
people of the locality to forcibly enter upon the said premises with intent to raise construction. The writ petition was disposed
of on 17th September, 2009. The Corporation was, however, restrained from raising any construction over the said
property. It is alleged by the writ petitioner that in or about July, 2010, the writ petitioner received
information from local sources that the Corporation had changed the name of Birinchi Bihari from
the category of owner and had inserted its name as the owner of the property in question. The writ petition was disposed of on 8th January, 2015
recording the concession made on behalf of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation that they were
unable to controvert the statements made in the writ petition. It was observed in the order dated 8th January, 2015 that the Kolkata Municipal Corporation
authorities could not place any material on record to establish its right to raise any construction on
the said premises. It is significant to mention that in the order dated 8th June, 2015, the learned Single Judge has
categorically recorded that the Corporation could not establish its right in the said property, and it
was on such basis that the learned Single Judge has directed status quo ante. 51 of 2015, before the
Division Bench of this Court. 981 of 2010 upon payment of costs assessed at Rs. It is submitted that the Act
contemplates two kinds of acquisition and has laid down the mode and manner of determination of
compensation separately for both the purposes. It is submitted that since the purpose of the
acquisition in the instant case is for opening a public park for the benefit of the public-at-large,
Section 537 of the Act, for the purpose of determination of compensation, cannot have any manner
of application. Mr. Partha Sarathi Sengupta, Senior Advocate, assisted by Mr. Utpal Bose, learned Senior Counsel
appearing on behalf of the writ petitioners, has submitted that the municipal authority has no power
to acquire the said land in absence of any agreement between the parties, and in the event of the
petitioners unwilling to enter into such agreement, the only recourse left to the Corporation is the
exercise of power under Section 537 of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation Act along with the
payment of compensation in terms of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. A copy of his
opinion is placed below for perusal. If
the aggrieved party moves the Court, then the Court will resolved the anomalies." Mr. Sengupta submits that this view of the Chief Municipal Law Officer was placed before the
Mayor-in-Council. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/107854050/

4

Kolkata Municipal Corporation & ... vs Bimal Kumar Shah on 17 December, 2019

We find from the resolution dated 13th December, 1990 that the Mayor-in-Council had decided to
take recourse to Section 352(a) of the Act to acquire the property and determine compensation
under Section 363 of the Act. as in the ......., the Mayor in Council received that notice taken by the Mpl. Commissioner for acquisition of land acquiring about 2B 15 X 11Ch. approx)
at Premises no.1060, .................. Road in Ward No. In the writ petition, there is no challenge to the
vires of Section 352 of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation Act. Section 352-Section 363 forms part
of Part VI, Ch. XXI of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation Act, 1980. It deals with town, building,
land and land use controls. Chapter XXII of the said Act deals with streets and public places. Section 537 deals with the procedure for when an immovable
property cannot be acquired by agreement. (2) If any additional land, which will be included in the premises of any person
permitted or required by an order under sub-section (2) of Section 360 to set forward
a building to the regular line of a public street, belongs to the Corporation, such order
shall be a sufficient conveyance to the owner of such land; and the price to be paid to
the Corporation by the owner for such additional land the other terms and conditions
of the conveyance shall be set forth in such order. Rs.45,000 plus ten times the amount of
the annual value in excess of Rs.3000]. (4) The amount of compensation awarded and all other charges incurred in the acquisition of any
such property shall, subject to all other provisions of this Act, be forthwith paid by the Municipal
Commissioner and thereupon such property shall vest in the Corporation." Section 352 mentions that lands and buildings can be acquired for public streets and
for public parking spaces. Land can be acquired for opening, widening, extending or otherwise
making any public street, park or garden, or for making a new road together with any building
standing upon such land. Although Section 535 says that the Corporation shall have the power to
acquire and hold immovable property or any interest therein but must it do so, in exercise of power
under Section 352 of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation Act, 1980 to give a lesser compensation? Article 31(1) of the Constitution stated that no person could be deprived of his property without the
authority of law. Between 1955-1971, the country has witnessed the judicial insistence on payment of full market
value for the property acquired. Though Article 300A is not a fundamental right any more,
nevertheless, it in no uncertain terms states that no person shall be deprived of his property save by
authority of law. It ensures that a person cannot be deprived of his property by executive fiat. The fact remains that no compensation has been paid as yet. It is also important to note that while acquisition under Section 537(3) would attract higher
compensation, acquisition for the same purpose under Section 363 would attract payment of
compensation on the basis of the annual value which is not at all consistent with the scheme of
compensation under the Land Acquisition Act. In the instant case we are unable to find out what would be the "acquisition of
other purposes than what is specified in Section 352 of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation Act,
1980". It is also one of the relevant considerations for which we feel that the mode and procedure
adopted by the corporation for acquiring the property cannot be supported. The labyrinth of the city
is spotted with fume, dust and pollution and it requires more greeneries and oxygen for its survival. The said process may be initiated and completed within five months from
date. The Corporation must communicate its decision to the writ petitioner within two weeks from
date and in the event the Corporation does not wish to acquire the property either in terms of
Section 536 or Section 537 the Corporation shall soon thereafter but not later than 10 days from
such decision make over the portion under its occupation to the last recorded owner of the property.