for educational use only
Avdhesh vs State Of Up And Another on 19 April, 2019

Allahabad High Court
Avdhesh vs State Of Up And Another on 19 April, 2019
Bench: Saurabh Shyam Shamshery

HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD

A.F.R.
RESERVED
Case :- APPLICATION U/S 482 No. - Present Application under section 482 Cr. Party No 2 and the Government advocate for Opp. Applicant Avadesh and Dinesh were employed to look after the shop
and machine. After assiduous efforts, it was revealed that these persons had stolen
the machines during night. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/106900396/

1

Avdhesh vs State Of Up And Another on 19 April, 2019

4. During investigation, statements of complainant ( Opp Party No 2) Smt Neelam, Ratan Singh
(witness), Pappu Rekhwaar (witness), Dashi Kushwaha (witness), Veer Singh (Witness) and Toran
Singh (witness) were recorded. Later-on, learned Chief Judicial
Magistrate, Laitpur took cognizance of the offence and summoned the applicant under order dated
1.3.2019 which is also impugned in the present Application. (II) No recovery of the alleged stolen boring machine has been made out. On
29.8.2018 when she went to her shop neither the boring machine nor these persons were traceable. If the version of the Opp party No 2 is considered to be true, then it would be a
case of contract which is purely a civil dispute. However, they
denied involvement of Dinesh. In this regard, the learned counsel for the applicant submitted that
these witnesses were wholly unreliable and are making false statements. (VI) The learned counsel for the Applicant submitted that ingredients of Section 381 IPC are not
discernible as the Applicant was neither a clerk or a servant nor employed in the caspacity of a clerk
or servant and therefore the alleged theft of boring machine from the shop cannot be considered a
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/106900396/

2

Avdhesh vs State Of Up And Another on 19 April, 2019

theft from the possession of his master or employer. There is no relationship between the applicant
and the Opposite Party no 2 as clerk or servant and master. Inherent power of the High Court should be
exercised sparingly and only in exceptional circumstances. The learned counsel for the State further contends that prima facie offence is made out against
the applicant and all submissions raised by applicant fall under the arena of disputed facts which
cannot be decided under the proceeding of section 482 Cr. Section 381 IPC being relevant is quoted below"381. (a) The accused was employed in the capacity of clerk or servant. (b) He committed theft in respect of alleged property. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of Fakhruddin Ahmad Vs State of Uttranchal and another
reported in (2008) 17 SCC 157, discussed the expression "taking cognizance of an offence" by a
Magistrate within contemplation of section 190 of the Cr. "11.The next incidental question is as to what is meant by expression `taking cognizance of an
offence' by a Magistrate within the contemplation of Section 190 of the Code? 12.The expression `cognizance' is not defined in the Code but is a word of indefinite import. As
observed by this Court in Ajit Kumar Palit Vs. It merely means--become aware 2
[1963] Supp. The
observations are:
3 (1910) I.L.R. 37 Calcutta 412 4 (2008) 2 SCC 492 5 A.I.R. (37) 1950 Calcutta 437 6 A.I.R. (38) 1951
SC 207 1 0 "7. ... It seems to me clear, however, that before it can be
said that any Magistrate has taken cognizance of any offence under Section 190(1)(a) CrPC, he must
not only have applied his mind to the contents of the petition, but he must have done so for the
purpose of proceeding in a particular way as indicated in the subsequent provisions of this Chapter,
proceeding under Section 200, and thereafter sending it for enquiry and report under Section 202. P.C
regarding quashing of criminal proceedings held in paras 22,23,24,25,26,27,28, and 29 as under:
"22. P.C. saves the
inherent power of the High Court to make such orders as may be necessary to give effect to any
order under this Code, or to prevent abuse of the process of any Court or otherwise to secure the
ends of justice. P.C. and laid down several principles which govern the exercise of jurisdiction of High Court
under Section 482 Cr. P.C. A three-Judge Bench of this Court in State of Karnataka vs. L.
Muniswamy and others, 1977 (2) SCC 699,held that the High Court is entitled to quash a proceeding
if it comes to the conclusion that allowing the proceeding to continue would be an abuse of the
process of the Court or that the ends of justice require that the proceeding ought to be quashed. P.C. can be exercised to
prevent abuse of the process of the Court or secure ends of justice. P.C. By analysing the scope of Section 482
Cr. Following was laid down in paragraph 6:
"6......All courts, whether civil or criminal possess, in the absence of any express provision, as
inherent in their constitution, all such powers as are necessary to do the right and to undo a wrong
in course of administration of justice on the principle quando lex aliquid alicui concedit, concedere
videtur et id sine quo res ipsae esse non potest (when the law gives a person anything it gives him
that without which it cannot exist). While exercising powers under the section, the court does not
function as a court of appeal or revision. Inherent jurisdiction under the section though wide has to
be exercised sparingly, carefully and with caution and only when such exercise is justified by the
tests specifically laid down in the section itself. It is to be exercised ex debito justitiae to do real and
substantial justice for the administration of which alone courts exist. Authority of the court exists for
advancement of justice and if any attempt is made to abuse that authority so as to produce injustice,
the court has power to prevent abuse. It would be an abuse of process of the court to allow any
action which would result in injustice and prevent promotion of justice. In exercise of the powers
court would be justified to quash any proceeding if it finds that initiation/continuance of it amounts
to abuse of the process of court or quashing of these proceedings would otherwise serve the ends of
justice. When no offence is disclosed by the complaint, the court may examine the question of fact. Further in paragraph 8 following was stated:
"8.....Judicial process should not be an instrument of oppression, or, needless harassment. At the same time the
section is not an instrument handed over to an accused to short-circuit a prosecution and bring
about its sudden death. In Sunder Babu and others vs. State of Tamil Nadu, 2009 (14) SCC 244, this Court was
considering the challenge to the order of the Madras High Court where Application was under
Section 482 Cr. The High Court accepted the case of the prosecution and dismissed the application. P.C.
following was stated in paragraphs 8 to 12:
"8. It has not been explained as to why for more than two years no action was taken. The section does not confer any new power on the High Court. No legislative enactment
dealing with procedure can provide for all cases that may possibly arise. That is the doctrine which finds expression in the
section which merely recognises and preserves inherent powers of the High Courts. P.C. The order of cognizance dated 1.3.2019 is
annexed with the application as Annexure 6 and the same is quoted below. U;k;ky; eq[; U;kf;d eftLVªsV] yfyriqjA
eq0 ua0 909@19
ljdkj

cuke

vo/ks'k vkfn

/kkjk & 381 I.P.C.
Fkkuk & rkycsgV
01-03-19

vkt vkjksi i= e; nhxkj dkxtkr iqfyl foHkkx ls izkIr gqvkA

laKku fy;k x;k] vkns'k gqvk fd ntZ jftLVj gksA vfHk;qDr@vfHk;qDrx.k ds fo:n~/k lEeu tkj

eq[; U;kf;d eftLVªsV
yfyriqjA
(Underline is supplied to show where the space has been left and are filled later-on.) Therefore, in the present case essential ingredients of section 381 IPC are absent. In a criminal case, the veiled
object behind a lame prosecution, the very nature of the material on which the structure of the
prosecution rests and the like would justify the High Court in quashing the proceeding in the
interest of justice....."
21. While exercising such power, the impugned charge sheet is quashed and the present application
is allowed.