for educational use only
REPORTABLE
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. There was reference in the
charge-sheet to a conspiracy between the first accused and
the second accused. There are various allegations
regarding other accused. 7366-7367 of 2010 and
connected

matters

ordering

investigation

into

the

illegalities into the matter of Mining Lease No. APPLICATION BY THE APPELLANT SEEKING DISCHARGE

3. He was posted as Director of Mines in Geology, having
regard to his
delegation

service record. Records produced by the official before the Court
reveal

that

the

Department

has

understood

that

reconstitution did not amount to transfer as the
partnership is the owner of the asset, viz., In addition to the application filed
to

the

Deputy

Director

seeking

MDPs,

Shri

K.M.

Vishwanath, Ex-Partner, representing the firm, made
application to the Director, placing on record that
firm had been reconstituted by inducting the first and
the second accused and, accordingly, intimated under
Rule 62 of the Rules. It is stated further that after
receiving the application by the Department, the file

6

will have to be processed in the Mining Lease Section. The Section Officer initially examines the
file. A detailed note on the application is prepared. If
it

is

within

the

jurisdiction,

he

disposes

the

application. Asha Mohammad Haroon joined as partner in place
of Shri B. Vasudev who retired. Again, AMC was reconstituted
by inducting Shri K.M. Prabhu and Smt. Sujata Prabhu
and Shri K.M. Sujan, as partners. Partners filed Form V before the Registrar of Firms
intimating reconstitution. Only
intimation under Rule 62 of the Rules was given. The
precedent available also was relied upon. The decision
taken was a bonafide decision. The suggestion to take legal
opinion was endorsed by the Additional Director which is
produced before the Court as Exhibit D-765, the note sheet. Reading of the charge-sheet and allegations, according to

10

the appellant, basically surrounded around Section 420 of
the IPC. No
fault was found in accepting reconstitution. Thereafter, reliance is placed on
decisions which were rendered under the Indian Stamp Act,

1

1966 SCC Online Kar 73 / ILR 1966 Mys. As to his
contention that many a time AMC was reconstituted and he
had really discussed the matter with CW21 before directing
the issue of MDPs, was found to be a matter of defence which
could not be pressed at the threshold. Applying the formulae of (some/mere
suspicion – grave suspicion: as
enunciated in Dilawar Balu Kurane’s
case (supra) and Union of India -vsPrafulla Kumar Samai and another
reported in AIR 1979 SC 366, to the
evidentiary material placed before
the court against respondent, then
also the needle tilts more towards
grove suspicion. Consciously he passed the order in
violation
of
the
statutory
provisions. We also heard learned Counsel
appearing for the respondent. Thereafter,

the

firm

was

reconstituted on a large number of occasions. This is a case where the action of the
appellant was bonafide. LEGAL PRINCIPLES APPLICABLE IN REGARD TO AN APPLICATION
SEEKING DISCHARGE

14. This is an area covered by a large body of case law. PC (See State of J & K v. Sudershan
Chakkar and another3). Mr. G. Janardhana Reddy and Mrs. G.
Lakshmi Aruna are sole Partners of the
Mine. AMC where lease is
also sanctioned to the same company only. It is clear that the provision, as obtained prior to
1960, when the Rules were made, was different. In the aforesaid case, the question came to be decided
in a Reference under Section 66 of the Income Tax Act, 1922. We may notice that the
Court in Sree Ramakrishna Mining Company (supra), inter
alia, held as follows:
“The 37th Rule, as can be seen from its
language does not concern itself with the
formation of a partnership such as the one
before us, and, its principal purpose is to
provide for the transfer of a lease granted
under the provisions of the Rules. The provisions of Rule 37, which would control destiny
of this case, is, as it was obtained in the year 2009. It is not open to the accused to rely on material by
way of defence and persuade the court to discharge him. In this case, as already noticed, going by the
statements made by the subordinates working in the Office
of the appellant, on receipt of the letter from the
erstwhile partners of AMC dated 26.12.2009, two of his
subordinates,

including

the

Additional

Director,

did

recommend that the matter requires a legal opinion. Consequently, the appeal fails and it stands dismissed. …………………………………………………J.
[SANJAY KISHAN KAUL]

…………………………………………………J.
[K.M. JOSEPH]
NEW DELHI;
JANUARY 07, 2020.