for educational use only
Vishwanath Jaynath Yadav @ Motha ... vs The State Of Maharashtra on 2 December, 2019

Bombay High Court
Vishwanath Jaynath Yadav @ Motha ... vs The State Of Maharashtra on 2 December, 2019
Bench: B.P. Dharmadhikari
rsk

1/13

J-APEAL-656-358-15.doc

IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.656 OF 2012
WITH
CRIMINAL APPLICATION NO.767 OF 2015
WITH
CRIMINAL APPLICATION NO.775 OF 2018
Mr. Atikul Habibul Rehman Shaikh & Anr. Mr. J. P. Yagnik, APP for the Respondent/State. Both have been convicted under section 302 read
with 34 of IPC and sentenced to suffer life imprisonment. Both accused persons have been given the benefit under section 428 of IPC. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/15309466/

1

Vishwanath Jaynath Yadav @ Motha ... vs The State Of Maharashtra on 2 December, 2019

2. The case of prosecution in short is deceased Baban was relative of complainant, a vegetable seller. One Harilal Yadav was murdered in the area. Nanda Patole witnessed accused persons catching hold of deceased and taking him infront of
house of Baban in open space. Accused No.2 gave blow of iron pipe on head of deceased while accused No.1 gave blow of
wooden danda on legs and on thigh of deceased. Accused gave blow of wooden danda on Baban's hand. Complainant in order to
save his cousin fell on his body. Due to noise
Alka and Anita i.e. two sisters of deceased Baban came out. He has
pointed out that on 1/10/2010 in the night deceased Baban gave abuses to his sister Guddu and
hence he and accused No.2 tried to pacify him and asked him not to indulge in such abuses. Therefore he with
wooden stick and accused No.2 with iron rod bet Baban on legs, hands and head. Type of weapon
described by her has not been seized by police. He further states that according to PW-1, Bablu and accused
No.1 are different persons while as per story of prosecution he is one and the same person. Accused No.2 had absconded after judgment when released on parole and was not in
jail since for about three years. He has surrendered voluntarily thereafter. Evidence of PW-3 Doctor is relied upon to show that all injuries were on vital part of body and
sufficient to cause death in ordinary course of nature. The facts that present accused persons were being threatened and pressurized not to give
evidence against sister of PW-1 by name Padma and her two sons in the matter of murder of Harilal
Yadav dated 23/8/2008 are not in dispute. Stitched wound over left parietal region over head 6 cm x 1 cm with 7 stitches,
stitches intact. Abrasion over right ear pinna inner side 2 cm x 0.8 cm. Abrasion over right arm lower part laterally 2 cm x 1 cm. Multiple small abrasions over bilateral shoulder joint, of size 1 cm x 1 cm and 0.5 x
0.5 cm. Contusion over bilateral thighs lower part extending to upper rsk 8/13 J-APEAL-656-358-15.doc
part of leg. Evidence also shows that injuries are on vital part and sufficient in ordinary course of nature to
cause death. Doctor has deposed that these injuries can result in instant death. Doctor has deposed that injuries can be caused by iron rod and wooden log. Kidney, heart, pleura were damaged and though there were no external injury, it is not
the case of accused persons that these internal injuries were not on account of their beating. So this cannot result in any benefit to accused persons. Trial Court has
marked this entire memorandum as Exhibit 17. Perusal of questions put to accused No.1 is question Nos.3, 4 and to accused
No.2 is question Nos.3 and 4 in section 313 examination shows that they are denying the entire
incident. Both of them have stated that they are falsely involved in the
matter. It is not their case that abuse enraged them and they used wooden stick or iron rod lying on
spot to hit deceased. This error is not fatal in
the present matter. In the case of Murli vs. State
of Rajasthan (supra), the Hon'ble Apex Court has taken note of fact that appellant Murli has a shop
in the bazzar. The deceased was a man of violent nature
terrorizing people by use of force and violence. On the
way he met PW-2, PW-3 and PW-7 and confessed them that he had finished an unsocial element. He
went to residence of the Police officer and on his direction, the accused proceeded to police station. This
judgment therefore does not lay down a law that in all circumstances exclupatory statement made
by accused or statement made in defence made by accused can be accepted and acted upon. In facts before us there is
no such material.