for educational use only
Suraj Jagannath Jadhav vs The State Of Maharashtra on 13 December, 2019

Supreme Court of India
Suraj Jagannath Jadhav vs The State Of Maharashtra on 13 December, 2019
Author: Ashok Bhushan
Bench: Ashok Bhushan, M.R. Shah
1

REPORTABLE
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICITON
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. Therefore, relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of Kalu Ram v. State of
Rajasthan (2000) 10 SCC 324, it is prayed to alter the conviction from Section 302 IPC to Section
304 Part II IPC. It is submitted that the act of
pouring kerosene, though on spur of moment, was followed by lighting a match−stick and throwing
it on the deceased and thereby setting her ablaze are intimately connected with each other and
resulted in causing death of the deceased. It is submitted that the act of the accused falls under
Section 300 fourthly and therefore the death of the deceased can be said to be culpable homicide
amounting to murder. It is submitted that the subsequent act of pouring
the water by the accused on the deceased appears to be an attempt to cloak his guilt since he did it
only when the deceased came out for help and made the noise. It is submitted therefore that it
cannot be considered as a mitigating factor. 5.1 It is the case on behalf of the
appellant−original accused that as at the time when the incident took place, the accused was drunk
and under the influence of liquor and he had no intention to cause death of the deceased−wife and
that even subsequently the accused tried to save the deceased and poured the water on her and
therefore the case would fall under Exception 4 to Section 300 IPC and, therefore the conviction is
to be altered from Section 302 of the IPC to Section 304 Part II IPC, having relied upon the decision
of this Court in the case of Kalu Ram (supra). He was very much
in the senses and was conscious about what he was doing. Therefore, the accused was fully
conscious of the fact that if kerosene is poured and match− stick is lit and put on the body, a person
might die due to burns. Where the intention to kill is present, the
act amounts to murder, where such an intention is absent, the act amounts to
culpable homicide not amounting to murder. When the accused poured kerosene on the deceased from the
kerosene lamp and also threw the lighted matchstick on the deceased to set her on
fire, he must have intended to cause the death of the deceased. Whether the kerosene was poured from the
kerosene lamp or from the can is of no consequence. Likewise, pouring of water will not mitigate the gravity of the offence. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/159242478/

3

Suraj Jagannath Jadhav vs The State Of Maharashtra on 13 December, 2019

12. After attending to nature's call, the deceased returned to the house a little late. The accused
questioned her as to why she was coming late and he also suspected her fidelity. Infuriated by the fact that his wife had failed to concede to his
demands, the accused poured kerosene on her and gave her a matchbox to set herself on fire. On her
failure to light the matchstick, the accused set her ablaze. The element of inebriation ought to be taken into consideration as it considerably alters
the power of thinking. In the instant case, the accused was in his complete senses, knowing fully well
the consequences of his act. Therefore, it cannot be considered as a mitigating factor. Intoxication, as such, is not a defence to a criminal charge. At times, it can be
considered to be a mitigating circumstance if the accused is not a habitual drinker,
otherwise, it has to be considered as an aggravating circumstance. In our view, the accused was
correctly charge−sheeted under Section 302 IPC and we find no reason to interfere with the
conviction and sentence awarded by the trial court and affirmed by the High Court. ..J.
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/159242478/

5

Suraj Jagannath Jadhav vs The State Of Maharashtra on 13 December, 2019

(ASHOK BHUSHAN) ..J.
(M. R. SHAH) New Delhi, December 13, 2019.