for educational use only
Non-Reportable

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
Criminal Appeal No 119 of 2010
Md. Younus Ali Tarafdar

.... Appellant(s)

Versus
The State of West Bengal

….Respondent(s)

JUDGMENT

L. NAGESWARA RAO, J.
1. On 20.03.1984, a phone call was received from

Bhaskar Gupta, PW 6 by Rajarhat Police Station that a
dead body was found in a well inside the garden. A First Information Report was registered
and the sketch map of place of incident was prepared. The body was brought out of the well the next day. Two ligature marks on both the wrist joints
of the deceased. There was no damage of

soft tissues in this region. During the course of investigation, the apparels on

the body were seized. The trial court convicted the Appellant for

offences under Section 302 read with Section 34 and
Section 201 read with Section 34 of the IPC. The Appellant used to visit
the house of the deceased. The evidence of PW 12 who
was the brother of the deceased was similar to the
effect that the deceased, Becharam Dhara, informed
him that he was going to Atghara where the Appellant
resides. We proceed to examine the matter in light of the

factors mentioned above. The family members of the

deceased were not shown the body as it was cremated
immediately. The

dead body which was taken out of the well was not
beyond recognition. After referring to the evidence of the above
[10]

witnesses, it is relevant to mention that in his evidence,
the Investigating Officer said that PW 11 Astomi Dhara
did not inform him when her statement was initially
recorded,

that

the

deceased

informed

her

on

15.03.1984 that he was going to visit the Appellant. During his cross-examination, the Investigating Officer
accepted that this is an improvement made by PW 12 as
such incidence was not narrated to him in the initial

[11]

statement made by PW 12 during the course of the
investigation. According to the prosecution, the receipt
[12]

issued by PW 4,

the owner of the watch shop

was seized from the Appellant during the course of
investigation. PW 12 did not state before the Investigating Officer
that he gave his watch to the deceased when he left the
house on 15.03.1984. On an overall consideration of the evidence on
record, especially the evidence of PWs 11, 12 and 16
would not lead us to believe that the Appellant and the
deceased were last seen together. ...............................J.
[L. NAGESWARA RAO]

.………...................... J.
[DEEPAK GUPTA]
New Delhi,
February 20, 2020.