for educational use only
Suresh S/O Sadhuji Ghogre (In ... vs The State Of Maharashtra, Thr. ... Presently lodged at Central Prison, Nagpur. =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
Shri R.M. Daga, Advocate for the Appellant. Police converted the offence to Section 302 of IPC. In such cases,
motive does not play any important role. One Shrutika Junghare is
the daughter of brother of deceased Shailesh. Deceased's family members were
not comfortable. It was brought to the notice of the appellant-accused. It was on account of
construction of house of the deceased. EVIDENCE 06] On going through the evidence of seven eye-witnesses, we find that only PW-4 Rafiq
Sheikh, PW-7 Anushka (daughter) and PW-6 Rajesh Randke have supported the assault by the
appellant on the deceased. These three wounds are on chest, abdomen and forehead. Final cause of death is 'stab injury to heart'. There was also stab wound to valves and
cartilages and it is corresponding to external stab wound over front of chest on left side. Neither the
defence has disputed about homicidal death nor there is any other contrary material. on 11 January, 2019

WEAPON 08] Even, there is a reason to uphold the knife as the weapon for causing all these
injuries. During
cross-examination, witness Rajesh has given one answer. Anushka had gone to the spot for calling her father. Deceased had gone to the new house on the
fateful day. That is to
say he has not narrated, how the accused came there from, whether there were talks in between
them. The accused- appellant patted the deceased
and when the deceased took a turn, appellant gave a blow of knife on his chest. Reena, wife of deceased has not witnessed the incident. C.A. Report does not suggest of finding out blood of deceased on that knife. Then, we realize the approach of the defence in conducting the appeal. For this reason, probably they have not pressed hard in
allowing the appeal in toto. The
appellant wants us to give similar benefit to the appellant. Defence can be successful in taking out the case from the
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/54877397/

3

Suresh S/O Sadhuji Ghogre (In ... vs The State Of Maharashtra, Thr. ... In the
case of direct evidence, the motive as a circumstance is not so important as in the case of
circumstantial evidence. Traces of such evidence are present here. The love
affair between Shrutika (niece of deceased) and Jitendra (son of appellant) and displeasure from the
family members of the deceased is shown as a background. PW-8 Reena Junghare, wife of deceased,
had given details of this background. The intimacy in between Shrutika and Jitendra was in the
month of April, 2014. Even,
Shrutika had committed suicide subsequently. This would
make us believe that it is difficult to hold that there was any premeditation or pre-planning on the
part of the appellant to kill the deceased which would in turn necessitate examining thoroughly the
presence of intention or knowledge as contemplated by Section 300 of IPC. 17] It is true that there are four injuries to the
deceased. PW-10
Dr. Nilesh has been examined by the prosecution to prove the nature of weapon used and it's
connection with the stab injury. 18] These facts create a doubt, in our opinion, about intention of the appellant to inflict such injury
as to cause the death of Shailesh or the appellant having intention to deal such an injury as is
sufficient to cause death or the appellant having knowledge that in all probability the injury caused
by him would result in death of the deceased. So, we intend to convert the conviction from
Section 302 to Section 304 of IPC. 20] When we have read the judgment of the trial Court, we do not find any discussion on the point
of fulfillment of the conditions of Section 300 of IPC. The learned trial Judge has discussed about
proof of all the circumstances. He was required to give findings before coming to the conclusion
about the guilt of the accused under Section 302 of IPC. SENTENCING 21] When we talk about punishment prescribed under Section 304 (I) of IPC, it is of
two kinds. One is life imprisonment or imprisonment up to 10 years and second is fine. Law has evolved on mitigating and
aggravating circumstances. 22] No doubt, the act is an offence against society. These family differences need to be considered
as one of the mitigating factors. There are no other legal representatives who have come on record. He was having long life to live and he must be the breadwinner of the family. At the same time, wife Reena and daughter Anushka need to be compensated. Appellant may contend weak financial capacity. If they will claim compensation through Civil Court, this
amount be considered. If there are other legal representatives of deceased, their claim is not
considered. For above reasons, we are allowing the appeal
partly and passing following orders :
i. Appeal is partly allowed. Out of this fine amount, an amount of Rs.5,00,000/- be
paid to Reena Shailesh Junghare and Anushka Shailesh Junghare in equal
proportion.