for educational use only
Anil Gupta & Ors vs The State Of West Bengal & Ors on 28 February, 2019

Calcutta High Court
Anil Gupta & Ors vs The State Of West Bengal & Ors on 28 February, 2019
IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
APPELLATE SIDE
Present:
THE HON'BLE ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE BISWANATH SOMADDER
AND
THE HON'BLE JUSTICE ARINDAM MUKHERJEE

MAT 1494 OF 2018
WITH
CAN 9635 OF 2018
Anil Gupta & Ors. Advocate,
with
Mr. Shuvashis Sengupta,
Mr. Sreya Basu Mallick,
Mr. Ankit Dey........Advocates

For the State

: Mr. Sakhaya Sen,
Mr. Amrita Lal Chaterjee........Advocates

Heard on

: 11.12.2018, 18.12.2018 & 21.02.2019

Judgment on

: 28.02.2019

ARINDAM MUKHERJEE, J. :
1)

This appeal is at the instance of the writ petitioners. The writ petitioners

are the five trustees of Raghunandanlal Sumitra Devi Educational Trust
(hereinafter referred to as the said 'trust'). Thereafter, the appellants have invested substantial sum of
money for executing the ground work before setting up of an educational institution with ancillary
facilities. Since 1967 till date, the said area is only under the possession of the fisheries
department and fisheries department is not the owner of the said land. 5) The appellants, subsequently, by a letter dated 7th February, 2018 requested the Fisheries
Department to reconsider and revalidate the lease. 5(Part), 6(Part) & 7(Part) P.S. Ramnagar, Dist. Fisheries
Corporation Limited and to collect the 3nos. This letter was issued by Special Officer Shankarpur Fishing Harbour. 19-sep-2018, from The Deputy Secretary,
Govt. 5(part), 6(Part) & 7(part), P.S - Ramnagar, Dist. Purba
Medinipur which have been handed over to West Bengal Fisheries Corporation
Limited. ( The appellants say that, with the letter dated 1st October, 2018 an internal memo dated 19th
September, 2018 written by the Deputy Secretary, Government of West Bengal, Department of
Fisheries to the Managing Director, West Bengal Fisheries Corporation Limited which contains a
marginal note wherein the Special Officer Shankarpur Fishing Harbour is requested to take over
possession with immediate effect and the letter dated 4th September, 2018 were also received by the
appellants. The contents of the memo dated 19th September, 2018 are set out hereunder:"The undersigned is directed to request him to take over the possession of land
measuring 12.61 acres with super structure in Mouza Dakshin Balarampur. The appellants believed in the representations made by
the Fisheries Department and altered its position by relying upon such representations and
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/67991442/

4

Anil Gupta & Ors vs The State Of West Bengal & Ors on 28 February, 2019

believing them to be true and correct. It is the Fisheries Department who has created the mess. The writ court cannot go into the validity or invalidity of
the title or of the lease deed. In such a situation, neither the Fisheries Department
nor the Special Officer, Shankarpur Fishing Harbour could have dispossessed the appellants without
due process of law. Records reveal that no affidavit has been filed by the
respondent nos. 1 to 6 with the police help on 18th
November, 2018. Let affidavit-in-opposition be filed one week after the Christmas Vacation. Reply
thereto, if any, be filed within a day thereafter. 1 to 6 has
tried to justify the taking over of possession. 15) It is well settled principle of law that even a trespasser cannot be evicted without due process of
law. It is also well settled that doctrine of frustration does not apply to leases. Noticing the above
factual matrix, we invited the parties for a practical amicable solution to the issue of dispossession. The appellants expressed their intention to abide by any reasonable offer or solution in line with the
lease deed dated 26th May, 2010. Land on LTS to the private Companies/Trusts etc. 1to 6 to the extent that the
appellants do not have any right to remain in possession as the lease is invalid and that the said
respondents have offered to refund of the lease rent received by it thereby causing no prejudice to
the appellants as also justifying the dispossession due to invalidity of the lease. These modalities cannot be given a go bye even if it is alleged that the lease is an
invalid one. 19) The appeal and the writ petition from where the order under appeal emanates are disposed of
accordingly, keeping all other points save as discussed above open. We have also not gone into the
merits of any other issue, save as discussed above. There shall, however, be no order as to costs. Urgent photostat certified copy of this order/judgment, if applied for, be supplied to the parties on a
priority basis.