Gabba Sk vs The State Of West Bengal on 10 June, 2019

Calcutta High Court (Appellete Side)
Gabbar Sk. @ 192/2007, thereby convicting the appellant under
Section 302 read with Section 34 of the Penal Code and sentencing him to suffer rigorous
imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of Rs. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/160425708/

1

Gabbar Sk. @ Gabba Sk vs The State Of West Bengal on 10 June, 2019

2. On 27.01.2005 at about 20.30 hours, PW 9, the brother of the victim/deceased, lodged a First
Information Report against the appellant and one Jahangir Sk. ( since deceased) under Section 302
read with Section 34 of the Penal Code. He found deep cut injuries on several parts of the deadbody,
nearly from head to toe. On 28.01.2005 at about 12 noon, PW 8 held post-mortem examination over
the deadbody of the victim. He too found several injuries on the deadbody. During trial the prosecution examined thirteen witnesses to establish its case. The defence case
was primarily that of a denial of the prosecution case. The victim was the husband of PW 2's sister. He saw that the brain matters of the victim had come out. He was a seizure list witness for the seizure of a muffler, a sandal and blood stained earth. She was proceeding in a taxi for availing of some medical treatment. In her cross-examination, she stated that she had gone
to one Dr. Tripathi for treatment. He saw
PWs 7, 9, 10 and 11 present there. Then the two
accused attacked the victim with 'hensua'. Then the accused chased and assaulted the victim. He also gave a statement
under Section 164 of the Code before a Learned Magistrate. In his cross-examination, he stated that
he did not know who had murdered Odul, the brother of the appellant. There were about twenty eight
injuries, of sharp cutting nature, on various parts of the body. Death had probably taken place
within 48 hours of the examination. Undigested rice was found in the stomach. He got down from a
taxi near Loton Masjid and saw a gathering. PW 7 told him that the accused had murdered the
victim. He saw the accused flee away with 'hensua' in bicycle. He did not find that seized articles in Court. PW 10 worked at the Hindustan Construction
Company as a supplier of electrical goods. He was a local man and was an eye-witness to the
incident. He was sitting with the victim and another man. started inflicting 'hensua' blows on the victim. PW 11 was a neighbour of the victim and an eye- witness to the occurrence. PW 13 was the Investigating Officer of the case. Mr. N.P. Agarwala, the Learned Advocate appearing on behalf of the State strongly supported the
conviction and sentence. There were five witnesses in this case who
claimed to be eye-witnesses. This
testimony was not challenged in clear terms by the defence by way of cross-examination. Moreover, at the very inception
PW 9, the de facto complainant and brother of the victim stated in the First Information Report that
the accused assaulted the victim due to previous grudge. We fully agree with the conclusion arrived at by the Learned Trial Judge that PWs 4 and 6 could
not be regarded as eye-witnesses because of the inconsistencies their testimonies had with the
evidence adduced by the Investigating Officer. PW 7, was a witness, in part, to the murderous
assault by the accused. He did say that while returning from work from their own mango orchard,
they were sitting in a 'mancha' and taking rest in the mango orchard of Ashu Khan, after which the
accused came and assaulted the victim. The only ostensible difference between PW 7's deposition
and the depositions of the other two eye-witnesses PWs 10 and 11 is that PW 7 did not say anything
about the brief initial interaction the victim had with accused. Gabba Sk vs The State Of West Bengal on 10 June, 2019

PWs stayed there and thus gave more complete details about the incident. PWs 10 and 11 gave vivid details of the
assault. The eye-witnesses PWs 7,
10 and 11 were not related to the victim and their evidence could not be shaken in the
cross-examination. Their depositions lend support
to the prosecution case in good measure. This clearly supports
the ocular evidence that accused chased the victim and hacked him mercilessly. PW 8, the
post-mortem doctor, deposed that the death was due to ante-mortem injuries that were homicidal in
nature.