for educational use only
Radha Bai vs Ram Narayan on 22 November, 2019

Supreme Court of India
Radha Bai vs Ram Narayan on 22 November, 2019
Author: A.M. Khanwilkar
Bench: A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari
1

REPORTABLE
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
CIVIL APPEAL NO. Digitally signed by CHARANJEET KAUR Date: 2019.11.22 15:12:09 IST Reason:
2. Sukhdeo was a Hindu and governed by the Mitakshra Laws. The suit
land came in the hands of Sukhdeo as ancestral property, in which Sukhdeo and his sons Janakram
and Pilaram were having joint shares being coparceners. 4, who has died during
the pendency of the present appeal). The appellants father Saheblal predeceased Janakram (his
father) and Sukhdeo (his grand−father). 2) and Rohit Kumar (defendant No.3) − three sons of Sonu (deceased
defendant No. 4), by virtue of the registered sale deed executed in their favour by Janakram on 21 st
July, 1979. ii): The plaintiff may be awarded expenses of the suit. The respondents−defendants resisted the said suit. On the basis of the rival pleadings, the Trial
Court framed as many as 9 issues, which read thus:
ISSUES: CONCLUSION:
============================================ (1.): (3.):Whether, up to the year 1982, the disputed land remained entered in joint & united accounts of
Janakram, Laxminbai and the plaintiff.} Whether, Janakram had no right to sale the disputed property/land. Whether, the sale deed dated 21st of July, 1997 is illegal and void. Whether, the plaintiff is entitled to obtain the possession of the disputed lands. The rival parties shall bear their own expenses. The operative order passed by the First Appellate Court reads thus:
26.): Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/39682409/

3

Radha Bai vs Ram Narayan on 22 November, 2019

v): Advocates fee, upon verification be payable in the decree at Rs.300/− (Rupees
Three hundred only). While admitting the second appeal, the Court formulated two
questions as substantial questions of law. Whether the plaintiff being the female had got the right to partition to the property
solely belonged to Sukhdeo and devolved upon Janak Ram by survivorship after the
demise of his father Sukhdeo? The High Court
considered the matter in the following words:
8. In this view of the matter, since Janak
Ram, prior to his death in 1982, had sold the suit lands to the defendants No.1to 3 by
executing a registered sale deed, the plaintiff Radha Bai could question the same only
on the limited ground of fraud or being without consideration. During life time of
Janak Ram, Radha Bai, being the daughter of a predeceased son Saheblal, had merely
a spes successionis to the suit property and nothing more. There is no material on
record to show that the defendant No.4 Sonu had got the sale deed dated 21.7.1979
executed from Janak Ram perforce or without consideration. Radha Bai, the plaintiff, having failed to prove that the sale deed was without consideration or was
executed perforce could not challenge the said transaction on any ground. Radha bai, the plaintiff, did not enter the witness box despite present in
Court and having been asked to do so. Having failed to do so, the suit must fail. Having answered both the substantial questions of law, the appeal deserves to be allowed. The
appellant−plaintiff being the sole surviving heir of Saheblal was claiming right in the entire share of
Saheblal. Had the appellant been
daughter of predeceased son of Sukhdeo, she may have had some chance of pursuing her claim. In such a situation, it is
settled law that the grand daughter cannot be treated as an heir so as to have a share in the suit
property. Ashok Kumar and Others3 and two
decisions of this Court in Hardeo Rai Vs. Sakuntala Devi and Others4 and Commissioner of Wealth
Tax, Kanpur and Others Vs. Chief Settlement Commissioner, Delhi and
Others7. It is urged that the High Court has not committed any error, much less a manifest error,
warranting interference by this Court. Hence, it is urged that this appeal being devoid of merits, be
dismissed. In paragraph 5 of the
reported decision, the Court observed thus:
5. A coparcenary under the
Mitakshara School is a creature of law and cannot arise by act of parties except in so
far that on adoption the adopted son becomes a co− parcener with his adoptive father
as regards the ancestral properties of the latter. ( emphasis supplied) This exposition
has been taken note of in Hardeo Rai (supra). The source of the property was not disclosed. No
other documentary or oral evidence was brought on record to show that the parties were in joint
possession of the properties. The appellant also in his deposition accepted that he and
his other co−sharers were in separate possession of the property. For the purpose of assigning ones interest in the property, it was not necessary that partition by
metes and bounds amongst the coparceners must take place. Once the share of a coparcener is determined, it ceases to be a coparcenary property. There is no dispute among the commentators on Hindu law nor in the
decisions of the court that under the Hindu law as it is, the son would inherit the same as karta of
his own family. The Hindu Succession Act, 1956 lays down the general rules of succession in the case of
males. Class I of the Schedule reads as follows:
Son; daughter; widow; mother; son of a predeceased son; daughter of a predeceased
son; son of a predeceased daughter; daughter of a predeceased daughter; widow of a
predeceased son; son of a predeceased son of a predeceased son; daughter of a
predeceased son of a predeceased son; widow of a predeceased son of a predeceased
son. including the son of a
predeceased son but does not include specifically the grandson, being, a son of a son living. The
learned judges observed, referring to the observations of Mullas Commentary on Hindu Law and the
provisions of Section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act, that in the case of assets of the business left by
father in the hands of his son will be governed by Section 8 of the Act and he would take in his
individual capacity. Section 4 of the said Act provides for overriding effect of Act. emphasis supplied) Again in paragraph 15:
15. Normally, therefore whenever the father gets a property from whatever
source from the grandfather or from any other source, be it separated property or
not, his son should have a share in that and it will become part of the joint Hindu
family of his son and grandson and other members who form joint Hindu family with
him. But the question is: is the position affected by Section 8 of the Hindu Succession
Act, 1956 and if so, how? It includes, however, the son of the predeceased son. emphasis supplied)
This decision has been quoted with approval in Yudhishter (supra). At p. 577 to 578 of the Report, this Court dealt with the effect of
Section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 and the commentary made by Mulla, 15th Edn., Shri Banerji relied on the said
observations of Mayne on Hindu Law, 12th Edn., The respondents have also invited our attention to the decision of Madhya Pradesh High Court
in Chandrakanta (supra), which had followed the aforementioned dictum to reject the claim of the
plaintiffs on the ground that so long as their father was alive, they cannot claim any right. The father of appellant, Saheblal, predeceased him in
1957. As a result of that
partition, the suit property came to the exclusive share of Janakram in his individual capacity. He
could, therefore, legitimately dispose of the same in the manner he desired and which he did in
favour of his grandsons (defendant Nos.1 to 3 respectively) vide registered sale deed dated 21 st July,
1979. They succeeded to the ancestral
property equally. Applying the settled legal position to the
present case, the grounds urged by the appellant need to be rejected. Hence, the same is dismissed with no order as to costs. ..J (A.M. Khanwilkar) ..J (Dinesh Maheshwari) New Delhi;
November 22, 2019.