for educational use only
Vinod Kumar Garg vs State (Govt. T. ... on 27 November, 2019

Supreme Court of India
Vinod Kumar Garg vs State (Govt. 1,000/- for each offence and in default of payment to undergo
simple Signature Not Verified imprisonment for three months on both counts separately. The
Digitally signed by SANJAY KUMAR Date: 2019.11.27 16:18:33 IST Reason:
sentences have been directed to run concurrently. Similarly, Hemant Kumar (PW-3) had contradicted the version in his examination
that the pant wash of the accused was taken at the Anti-Corruption Branch, as in his crossexamination Hemant Kumar (PW-3) had accepted the suggestion that the hand-wash and pocket
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/6545890/

1

Vinod Kumar Garg vs State (Govt. Further, the testimonies of Nand Lal (PW-2) and Hemant Kumar (PW-3) reveal a major dichotomy
on the amount that the appellant had allegedly demanded as bribe. Drawing our attention to the version of Nand Lal (PW-2), it was submitted that Hemant Kumar
(PW-3) was not an eyewitness or a panch witness to the demand and payment of alleged bribe
money. In view of the irreconcilable versions of the two witnesses, the appellant is entitled to benefit
of doubt. Nand Lal
(PW-2) after shifting his goods etc. to the shed had again visited the DESU Office and learnt that
Inspector Yadav had been transferred. The currency notes were again subjected to chemical treatment
and the raiding party had proceeded to the DESU office. T. ... on 27 November, 2019

(PW-3) had met the appellant, who had then asked Nand Lal (PW-2) to wait on the appellants
scooter parked outside the office. After some time, the appellant came out of the office. Nand Lal
(PW-2) had suggested that he would give money in the presence of the other person, i.e., Hemant
Kumar (PW-3), which suggestion was not accepted by the appellant. From the pant pocket of the appellant, a polythene bag
containing the currency notes was seized. Hemant Kumar (PW-3) had followed them on foot. The
scooter was driven to a distance of about 50 yards from the DESU office. The testimony of Rohtash
Singh (PW-5) bolsters our findings. It is wrong that I am not intentionally
disclosing this fact. It is correct that seizure memo of GC notes were prepared in my
presence which is Ex. PW 2/C which bears my signature at point A. It is correct that GC notes Ex. P1 and P2 which bears my signatures on each bottle at
point A. Polythene bag wash Ex. P1 and P2 were taken into possession vide seizure memo Ex. PW 2/F which bears my
signature at point A.
9. Regarding the hand-wash, Nand Lal (PW-2) could not recollect full facts and had stated that as
far as he could remember, the appellant had given his hand-wash and the polythene bag was also
washed. We would observe that ex facie the hand wash and the pant wash
were not done as the coated money was put in the polythene bag. Polythene bag was washed and the
wash kept in the bottles as has been deposed by Rohtash Singh (PW-5). The money recovered was the currency
notes that were treated and noted in the pre-raid proceedings vide Exhibit PW-2/G. The aspect of
demand and payment of the bribe has been examined and dealt with above. The contradictions as
pointed out to us and noted are insignificant when juxtaposed with the vivid and eloquent narration
of incriminating facts proved and established beyond doubt and debate. Documents prepared
contemporaneously noticed above affirm the primary and ocular evidence. We, therefore, find no
good ground and reason to upset and set aside the findings recorded by the trial court that have
been upheld by the High Court. The shed did not have an electricity meter. Anil Ahuja, who had
appeared as PW-6, had denied having given the said shed on rent and was declared hostile. Interestingly, in the cross- examination one of the suggestions
put to Nand Lal (PW-2) was that he had given an application for electricity connection to the
predecessor of the appellant and not to the appellant, thus, suggesting that Nand Lal (PW-2) wanted
installation of an electricity meter for the shed. The deposition of Nand Lal (PW-2) that he wanted an
electricity connection to be installed in the shed should be accepted. The appellant was
found in possession of the bribe money and no reasonable explanation is forthcoming that may
rebut the presumption. Pertinent in this regard would be the statement made by the appellant under Section 313 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (the Code, for short) wherein in response to most of the questions,
the appellant had expressed his inability to answer or denied the evidence proved. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/6545890/

7

Vinod Kumar Garg vs State (Govt. We would now turn our attention to the two technical objections taken by the appellant in
respect of the sanction order and the validity of investigation. 2,000/- as illegal gratification from Sh. A-2 DSIDC Welcome
Colony, Seelam Pur, Delhi, without proper formalities. Vinod Kumar Garg,
Inspector, DESU (now DVB) office Seelam Pur, Delhi, demanded, accepted and
obtained Rs. 500/- (second instalment) as illegal gratification from the complaint. T. ... on 27 November, 2019

cross-examination was, however, clear and categoric that he had received the report of the
Investigating Officer along with the kalandra of oral and documentary evidence. We have to read the cross- examination of
Navin Chawla (PW-1) in entirety and not in piecemeal. It is important to
be mindful of the observations made by the Court as reproduced below:
3. [] what the Court has to see is whether or not the Sanctioning Authority at the time
of giving sanction was aware of the facts constituting the offence and applied its mind
for the same Similarly, in Ameerjan (supra), it was observed:
10. [] Therefore, what the law
requires is the application of mind by the Sanctioning Authority on the material
placed before it to satisfy itself of prima facie case that would constitute the offence. The prosecution may prove by adducing the evidence that the material was
placed before the sanctioning authority and its satisfaction was arrived at upon
perusal of the material placed before it. T. ... on 27 November, 2019

constitute the offence. The contention of the appellant, therefore, fails and is rejected. Where the cognizance of the case has
already been taken and the case has proceeded to termination, the invalidity of the precedent
investigation does not vitiate the result, unless a miscarriage of justice has been caused thereby. Similar is the position with regard to the validity of the sanction. A mere error, omission or
irregularity in sanction is not considered to be fatal unless it has resulted in a failure of justice or has
been occasioned thereby. The appellant would
surrender within a period of four weeks from today to undergo the remaining sentence. ......................................J.
(INDU MALHOTRA) ........................................J.
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/6545890/

10

Vinod Kumar Garg vs State (Govt. T. ... on 27 November, 2019

(SANJIV KHANNA) NEW DELHI;
NOVEMBER 27, 2019

Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/6545890/

11