for educational use only
Keshavrao Tulshiram Patil Since ... vs State Of Maha & Ors on 10 January, 2019

Bombay High Court
Keshavrao Tulshiram Patil Since ... vs State Of Maha & Ors on 10 January, 2019
Bench: T.V. Nalawade, Sunil Keshaorao Kotwal
LPA No. Sai Sawali, Ist Floor,
Keluskar Road, North. 1A2) Sandip S/o Vasantrao Patil,
Aged 39 yrs, Occu. Keluskar Road, North-II,
Shivaji Park, Dadar,
Mumbai - 400 028. Tejal," 4th Floor, Hindu
Colony, LaneNo.2, Plot No.79,
Dadar (E), Mumbai. ::: Uploaded on - 22/01/2019

::: Downloaded on - 25/03/2020 20:48:00 :::
LPA No. The Additional Commissioner,
Nashik Division, Nahsik. The Sub-Divisional Officer,
Chalisgaon Division, Jalgaon,
Dist. Dinnath S/o Keshavrao Tembulkar,
deceased though his legal heir
and representative,

8-A) Subhash S/o Keshavrao Tembulkar,
Age: 78 years, Occu: Nil,
R/o Ramniwas, Subhash Road,
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/141130310/

2

Keshavrao Tulshiram Patil Since ... vs State Of Maha & Ors on 10 January, 2019

Vile Parle (East), Mumbai. Though their G.P.A. Holder,
Dhananjay Manohar Gangakhedkar,
Age: 55 years, Occu: Agril., 10/2004
4

Mr. R.N. Dhorde, Senior Counsel i/b. Mr. M.M. Nerlikar, AGP for State/Respondent Nos.1 to 7
Mr. P.R. Patil, Advocate for Respondent Nos. CORAM

DATED

:

:

T.V. NALAWADE AND
SUNIL K. KOTWAL, JJ. 135 and 144 situated at Jamda, Tahsil Chalisgaon,
District Jalgaon. The sale deed was executed by Ramchandra for himself LPA
No. 10/2004 and also for the minors like Dinanath and Subhash, who were sons of deceased brother
of Ramchandra. 8 to 10 are the successors of vendor of aforesaid sale deed. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/141130310/

4

Keshavrao Tulshiram Patil Since ... vs State Of Maha & Ors on 10 January, 2019

3) Vendor Ramchandra applied for permission to Collector to alienate the aforesaid two lands, but
on 4.5.1945 the Collector informed that permission for sale of the property cannot be granted, but it
was open to Ramchandra to sell the life interest in this Watan property. 4) The Bombay Paragana and Kulkarni Watans (Abolition) Act, 1950 (hereinafter referred to as 'the
Act' for short) came in force on 1.5.1951. Under the provisions of section 4 (1) of the Act and as per
the policy of the State Government, which was expressed in explanatory circular of the year 1953, by
order dated 1.6.1956 regrant of both the lands were made in favour of purchaser as the purchaser
was in possession of both the lands at the relevant time. 10/2004 six times of the assessment of the lands. Ramchandra, vendor died in the year 1962
and during his lifetime, he did not raise objection to aforesaid revenue entries and orders made in
favour of the purchaser. 8 to
10 before Additional Collector and by order dated 7.9.1979 Additional Collector allowed this
proceeding and remanded the matter to Tahsildar for fresh inquiry. 4968/1987 was filed by the present
appellants. The learned Single Judge dismissed this writ petition and decision was challenged by
filing L.P.A. No. 701/2003 was then filed by the purchaser
before the learned Single Judge. Without passing reasoned order, the review application came to be
rejected. Against the decision of Review Application No. 701/2003, Special Leave Petition (Civil)
No. This time by passing reasoned
order the learned Single Judge again dismissed the Review Application No. The sale deed was executed
for himself and for the minor sons of brother of Ramchandra as guardian of those minors. It is also
not disputed that the possession of both the lands was given to purchaser under sale deed by vendor. The legal necessity is mentioned in the sale deed. These mutations were never challenged by vendor or his successors. (VI) It is not disputed that Ramchandra, vendor died in the year 1962. First time in the year 1976 respondent No. (IX) Though the aforesaid reasons were given by Additional Collector in the decision dated 7.9.1979,
the operative order of remand was of following nature :"O R D E R The appeal is allowed. Parties to be informed separately by letter. Copy with the case papers of his file twist to the S.D.O.C. Dn. Copy with the original case papers forwarded to the Tahsildar Chalisgaon for further
necessary action. This order shows that the order of the original authority of regrant was not set aside. (X) The order of learned Additional Collector made on 7.9.1979 does not show that the point of
limitation which was considered by S.D.O., the first appellate authority as it was raised was
considered and decided by the learned Additional Collector. The order of learned
Additional Collector LPA No. 10/2004 does not show that he had condoned the delay caused in
filing the appeal against the order of regrant made in favour of the purchaser. ( Both the authorities held that the order of remand was proper and the last proceeding came to be
dismissed on 14.9.1981. The point of limitation was not touched by both these authorities. The
decision was not further challenged by purchaser and then the inquiry was made by the Tahsildar. Thus, no inquiry as such was made by the
Tahsildar and the reasons which can be said of his own in the order are as under :"The provisions of Section 4(1) of the Bombay Paragana and Kulkarni Watans
(Abolition) Act, 1950 are clear. The Purchaser cannot be deemed to be a watandar
and no order of regrant can be passed in his favour. Ramchandra Tembulkar who sold
the lands in favour of Shri. Keshav Tulshiram Patil on new and impartible tenure. The order of Tahsildar dated 15.10.1984 was challenged

by the predecessors of purchaser up to the State Government and then Writ Petition
No. (a) Whether the officer on special duty could have decided the revision filed by
purchaser when the State Government is required to decide the proceeding in view of
the provision of section 257 of Maharashtra Land Revenue Code. 5 of the judgment of L.P.A. and it is as under :"5. 701/2003 filed for review by the purchasers in accordance with the
aforesaid order of L.P.A. was dismissed by the learned Single Judge by passing unreasoned order
which was as under :Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/141130310/

9

Keshavrao Tulshiram Patil Since ... vs State Of Maha & Ors on 10 January, 2019

"Review Application is taken up for hearing. Heard the learned senior counsel for the
appellants
and
learned
counsel
respondents. 10/2004 petition as has been done in this case. In our view, it would be more
appropriate and desirable to have such issues considered effectively, initially by the
High Court and that the matter should be for that purpose relegated to the High
Court by setting aside order of the learned Single Judge summarily dismissing the
review petition by a non-speaking order. Accordingly, the said order is set aside. The
point 'commutation settlement' was not at all involved as no such application was made under the
Act or under the Act of 1874. The learned Single Judge held that Government Resolution dated
2.2.1953 is not applicable. It is
observed that the order of regrant made in favour of purchaser was set aside by appellate revenue
authority when there was no such specific order and the order was only of remand and inquiry. 58/2008
CNP 408/2009 decided on 26.7.2011. Both the High Courts referred and followed the ratio of Apex
Court in the case reported as AIR 2004 SC 5152 (P.S. Sathappan (Dead) by L.Rs. 10/2004
10) No case of this Court was cited by either side. 11) This Court holds that in the present matter for considering the tenability of L.P.A. against the
order made by the learned Single Judge, the ratio laid down in the case of P.S. LPA No. 10/2004
Sathappan by the Apex Court need to be used and that ratio is applicable in the present matter. If object behind the L.P.A. is kept in mind, it needs to be
held that Division Bench of this Court is expected to ascertain the correctness of the decision of the
learned Single Judge on these points first in L.P.A. and then the party can approach the Apex Court. 10/2004 the case reported as
AIR 1981 SC 1786 [Shah Babulal Khimji Vs. L.J.
439 [Saraswati Education Society, Dist. In this case, this Court had held that the provision of order 23, Rule 1 of C.P.C. is applicable to
L.P.A. and due to that reason, if earlier L.P.A. was withdrawn without obtaining leave from the
Court in terms of provisions of this order, fresh L.P.A. against the same order is not maintainable. The relevant facts are already
quoted by this Court. Reliance was placed on observations
made in the case reported as AIR 1981 SC 1786 [Shah Babulal Khimji Vs. 10/2004 1847, the Act, Bombay Land Revenue Code, the
provisions of Evidence Act and some provisions of Limitation Act need to be considered. It can be said that
similar provisions are there in the Act also showing the shift in the policy of the Government and
approach of the Government to allow the transfer of occupancy rights under the Act. Kulkarni Watan was office of Village Accountant. II and VII of 1863, or any other law at
present in force with respect thereto." These provisions need to be kept in mind as the
provisions of the 'Act' also find the source of power in the Act of 1874. It includes a right to levy customary fees or perquisites, in
money or in kind, whether at fixed times or otherwise. "Watandar" means a person having an hereditary interest in a watan. The provision of section 5 (1)(a) shows that for alienation of the rights of holder for the term of
natural life, there was no necessity of sanction of the State Government. The learned Single Judge has committed error in law by holding that before alienation
there ought to have been settlement under section 15 of the Act of 1874. (2) Validation of prior settlements.- Repealed by Act XVI of 1895. 10/2004 and
the holder of the watan and his heirs and successors. 10/2004 representative under part VIII of the Act of 1874. But no such record of duty available for the year 1944. 19) Section 9(i) of the Act of 1874 runs as under :"9. Collector may declare alienation of watan property to be under certain
circumstances null and void. - ( 10/2004
entitled thereto and may recover and pay to such watandar any profits thereof
accordingly." If the aforesaid provision is kept in mind and the facts of the present matter are compared for
application of provision, it can be said that in the year 1953 the name of present purchaser was
deleted from ownership column which was entered in the past on the basis of sale deed, but the
name of the purchaser was continued in other rights column as there was the sale deed in his favour. 10/2004 deemed to be subject to the payment of land revenue under the provisions of the Code and
the rules made thereunder as if it were an unalienated land :
Provided that such resumption shall not affect the validity of any alienation of such watan land
made in accordance with the provisions of section 5 of the Watan Act or the rights of an alienee
thereof or any person claiming under or through him;
(4) all incidents appertaining to the said watans are hereby extinguished." 10/2004 liable to be summarily ejected in accordance with the provisions of the Code. Of the amount of the current market value of such land to the
Government, and after such conversion, such land shall be held by the occupant as Occupant Class I,
in accordance with the provisions of the Code :
LPA No. Of the current market value of such land as Nazarana, been transferred for
non-agricultural use, such transfer may be regularised on payment of an amount equal to fifty per
cent. In that regard, the provisions of the Act of 1874 and of the Act are already quoted. The circular dated 2.2.1953
shows nothing, but that policy of the State Government. First para of the circular shows that the circular was issued for considering the rights of alienees of
life interest also and to cover other situations. 28) The other portions of the circular are as under :"III. The alienations saved by Section 5 of the Watan Act. The alienations falling
under (iii) are also saved by the proviso to sub section (3) of Section 3 and the
alieness, being watandars of the same watan would be considered as holders of the
watan would be considered as holders of the watan entitled to regrant under sub
section (1) of Section 4 on payment of the occupancy price. This principle of
adverse possession will apply even to alienations of life interest against the
succeeding holders. The other option was there as provided in part V of the circular to get
rights in his own favour. Thus rights were given to stranger to
Watan, purchaser. This policy is not at all
touched by the revenue appellate authority and even the learned Single Judge has not considered
that policy of the Government even in review application. In the policy decision, it is also mentioned as to how the possession of the
purchaser of life interest becomes adverse to the successors of the holder. 8 Dinanath and learned Single Judge has also
not touched the point of limitation from this angle. 8 Dinanath was under the
provisions of Maharashtra Land Revenue Code, 1966. The relevant case law was cited for the purchaser and
that is being discussed hereinafter. 10/2004 one, the delay point needs to be addressed more
seriously even by revenue authority and it was a proceeding of appeal. This was not done and the
learned Single Judge has also committed error on this point. In this case, the Apex Court has discussed the
power of the State Government to exercise revisional jurisdiction (not appellate jurisdiction). It is observed that if fraud is played the revisional jurisdiction can be exercised even
after 10 years from the date of decision. Thus, the Apex Court held that the revisional jurisdiction
could have been exercised even after 10 years and that period of 10 years was held to be reasonable
period. 10/2004 quoted and specific policy of Maharashtra State is also
quoted. It can be said that the policy of the Government changed
to remove the difficulties which were faced due to alienation made by occupants against whom there
were conditions imposed at the time of regrant of the land. Thus, now
regularization of such transfers is possible and this policy of the Government cannot be ignored. This case is on the provisions of the Act and also on Act of 1874. It is open to the State to take policy decision as mentioned above. After coming
into force of the Act, similar procedure was there for getting the permission of the authority of the
State Government for alienating occupancy rights which were subject to some conditions. In the result, following order is made :O R D E R The Letters Patent Appeal is allowed. The orders made by the Mamlatdar, appellate authority and the
revisional authority, which were under challenge in the writ petition are hereby set aside.