for educational use only
Ramdas Waman Tadge vs The State Of Maharashtra on 22 February, 2019

Bombay High Court
Ramdas Waman Tadge vs The State Of Maharashtra on 22 February, 2019
Bench: S.S. Jadhav
1

6 Apeal 497 of 2014

Vat
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
CRIMINAL APPEAL No. 497 OF 2014

Ramdas Waman Tadge
)
Age 41 years, Occupation Service,
)
Jr. Clerk, Co-op. Society, Malegaon
)
Office, Resident of Plot No.3, Sr. 69A)
Rawalgaon Naka, Malegaon Camp,
)
Malegaon, Tal. Shradha Sawant for Appellant in Appeal No. The ACB had decided to lay a trap and had called upon two public servants to act as panchas at
the time of trap. The raiding party had been to the office. On
25th July, 2006, the complainant Mr. Bankar along with a panch Mr. Saundane had been to the
office premises of the 3 6 Apeal 497 of 2014 auditor which was situated at Market Yard. The complainant had requested the auditor to prepare
the audit report properly. Thereafter, Mr. Kasar had questioned as to whether he is ready to fulfill
the demand. He had received the answer in the affirmative. The Appellant had accepted the said amount, retained it and placed it
in his hip pocket of the pant. 3043 of 2006 was registered at the
police station. section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. After negotiation, the Complainant paid Rs.2,500/- to the auditor and had assured the auditor that
he would pay the rest of the amount of Rs.5,500/- subsequently but at the earliest. The explanation to section 7 reads as under. PW2- Sunil Saundane, who happens to be the shadow witness, has reiterated that when he had
met Accused No.1 in the cabin along with the defacto complainant, only accused No.1 was present
and, thereafter Accused No.2 had been to the office. There are discrepancies and ambiguities as
far as the site/location of demand and acceptance. PW3 is the Sanctioning Authority Mr. Sudhakar Mehakarkar. He has stated that he had perused
the papers and then granted sanction as he was competent to accord sanction. He has
deposed before the Court that audit 8 6 Apeal 497 of 2014 department would charge the audit fees
as per the working capital of the society. According to PW5,
the members of the raiding party had seen that the tainted amount was being accepted by a person
waring white checks shirt. As far as the present Appellant is concerned, the deposition of PW5 would
be relevant to consider the immediate disclosure by the accused after the trap. Both of them gave their statements in their handwriting. Section 20 of the
Prevention of Corruption Act reads as follows:
"20. The evidence on record would indicate that the accused has rebutted the said
presumption right from the threshold of the case, inasmuch as soon after the trap,
since he has categorically stated that the amount, which he had accepted was not by
way of bribe or gratification, but the Complainant had insisted upon him to receive
the amount towards audit fees and convinced the officer about the same. By way of cross examination, it is brought on record by the defence that the performance of the
society was so poor that it was classified in 'C' Category. An attempt was being made by the Complainant to show that
the classification is being made by adopting illegal means. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Selvaraj Vs. Demand has to be proved by adducing clinching evidence. State of Kerala [(2015) 11 Supreme Court
Cases 314] has observed as follows:
"It has been continuously held by this Court in a catena of cases after interpretation
of the previsions of Section 7 and 13(1) (d) of the Act that the demand of illegal
gratification by the accused is the sine qua non for constituting an offence under the
provisions of the act. Unless there is proof of demand of illegal
gratification proof of acceptance will not follow." Acceptance devoid of any demand would be of no significance. Especially
when he accused has rebutted the presumption by demonstrating preponderance of
probabilities. It is clear from the evidence of he complainant that the appellant had
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/128311484/

6

Ramdas Waman Tadge vs The State Of Maharashtra on 22 February, 2019

received the amount upon instructions of the co-accused. Upon appraisal of the records and proceedings and upon perusing the statement
of Accused No.2 given to the Investigating Officer, at the threshold, soon after the
trap shows that Mr. Kasar had asked him to accept the report of the panch committee
and the amount for depositing audit fees. In the light of this, the reason for cross examining the
witnesses on the point of scene of offence at length, would assume importance. In the light of these
circumstances, the prosecution has not been able to establish as to whether the amount has been
accepted by Accused No.2 in the cabin of accused No.1 or on the road. Explanation given by
the accused soon after the trap stands on a higher footing than any other material adduced by the
accused by way of cross -examination or under section 313 of Cr. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/128311484/

7

Ramdas Waman Tadge vs The State Of Maharashtra on 22 February, 2019

(ii) The judgment and order dated 27.5.2014 passed by the Additional Sessions Judge, Malegaon,
Dist. 01 of 2008 is hereby quashed and set aside. 17

(v)

6 Apeal 497 of 2014

Fine amount, if paid, be refunded.