for educational use only
REPORTABLE
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) D NO.3334 OF 2020

MUKESH KUMAR

...Petitioner
VERSUS

UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS

…Respondents

ORDER
R. BANUMATHI, J.
This writ petition has been filed under Article 32 of the
Constitution of India by the petitioner-Mukesh Kumar - a death-row
convict. The review petition was heard by the Supreme Court in
2

open court and the same was considered and dismissed by
judgment dated 09.07.2018. According to the petitioner, after exhausting all his remedies,

he has filed mercy petition on 14.01.2020 addressed to the
President of India under Article 72 of the Constitution of India and to
the Lieutenant Governor under Article 161 of the Constitution and
the

through

the

Superintendent,

Tihar

Jail

No.2. The

Superintendent, Tihar Jail No.2 forwarded the petitioner’s mercy
petition along with his nominal roll, latest medical report of the
petitioner, trial court judgment and details of the punishment of the
petitioner to Officer in Charge – Legal, Prison, Tihar Jail for
processing of the petitioner’s mercy petition. According to the petitioner, his conduct in prison and his
capacity to reform, is a crucial consideration for mercy. It is alleged that within 24 hours of petitioner’s mercy petition,

on 15.01.2020, the Deputy Chief Minister announced that the
Government has recommended the rejection of the mercy petition of
the petitioner and sent it to the Lieutenant Governor. On 16.01.2020, respondent No.2-NCT of
Delhi has recommended the rejection of petitioner’s mercy petition
and the same was forwarded to the President of India. Placing reliance upon communication
from the Superintendent, Tihar Jail dated 14.01.2020, the learned
Senior counsel submitted that as laid down in Shatrughan
Chauhan, the relevant materials had not been placed before the
President of India and the relevant materials had been kept out of
5

consideration. So far as the
averment as to quick rejection of the mercy petition, the learned
Solicitor General submitted that delay in disposal of the mercy
petition may be a ground for consideration of the mercy petition;
6

whereas quick consideration of the mercy petition and rejection of
the same cannot be a ground for judicial review of the order of the
President under Article 72 of the Constitution nor does it suggest
that there was pre-determined mind and non-application of mind. After referring to Kehar Singh v. Union of India (1989) 1 SCC

204 and other judgments, in Shatrughan Chauhan and another v.
Union of India and others (2014) 3 SCC 1, the Supreme Court
considered the power of the President or the Governor of the State
under Articles 72 and 161 of the Constitution and observing that it is
a constitutional duty, held as under:“14. As a result, it is neither a matter of grace nor a matter of privilege
but is an important constitutional responsibility reposed by the People in
the highest authority. In Shatrughan Chauhan,
it was held as under:-

9

“22. ….. When the matter is
placed before the President, it is incumbent on the part of the Home
Ministry to place all the materials such as judgment of the trial court,
High Court and the final court viz. P.C; (iv) Case diary and charge sheet and other documents like
Dying Declaration, etc. are concerned, they are the materials upon
which reliance has been placed upon by the petitioner to put forth
his defence. There is no merit in the contention of the petitioner that
relevant materials were kept out of the consideration of the
President. The
learned counsel for the petitioner contended that Column No. 23
was left blank and thus, the guidelines had not been followed. (vi) Was the evidence duly considered in fixing responsibility, if it
was a gang murder case? (vii) Were there long delays in the investigation and the trial? We find no reason to hold that the above guidelines were not kept in
view. Even if this Court has awarded capital
sentence, it was held that Section 30 does not cover him so long as his
petition for mercy to the Governor and/or to the President permitted by
the Constitution, has not been disposed of. To be “under sentence of death” means “to be under a
finally executable death sentence”. It is stated that for

security reasons, the petitioner was kept in one ward having
multiple single rooms and barracks and the said single room had
iron bars open to air and the same cannot be equated with solitary
confinement/single cell. It is stated that the prisoner/petitioner who
was kept in the single room comes out and mixes up with the other
inmates in the prison on daily basis like other prisoners as per rules. Considering the averments in the affidavit filed by the Director
General, Prisons, the contention of the petitioner that he has been
kept in solitary confinement in violation of the principles of Sunil
Batra v. Delhi Administration and Others (1978) 4 SCC 494 cannot
be countenanced. of NCT of Delhi announced that the government had
made the recommendation for rejection of the petitioner’s mercy
petition. Merely because there was quick consideration and
rejection of the petitioner’s mercy petition, it cannot be assumed
that the matter was proceeded with pre-determined mind. But the
quick consideration of the mercy petition and swift rejection of the
same cannot be a ground for judicial review of the order passed
under Article 72/161 of the Constitution. The writ
petition is dismissed accordingly. ………………………..J.
[R. BANUMATHI]
..………………………..J.
[ASHOK BHUSHAN]
………………………..J.
[A.S. BOPANNA]
New Delhi;
January 29, 2020.