This appeal is directed against the judgment and order of conviction dated 20.03.2008 and
sentence dated 24.03.2008 passed by the Learned Additional Sessions Judge, 1st Fast Track Court,
Arambagh, Hooghly in ST Case No. 25/2005, thereby convicting the
appellant under Section 302 of the Penal Code and sentencing him to suffer imprisonment for life
and to pay a fine of Rs. PW 9 conducted the post-mortem examination on the two
dead bodies on 04.12.2004. He opined that the deaths were due to the injuries as mentioned in the
reports, which were ante-mortem and homicidal in nature. He was a post-occurrence witness, a witness to the seizure as well as the
inquest. But, he turned hostile when confronted with a signature on the carbon copies of the inquest
reports and did not depose anything about the extra-judicial confession purportedly made by the
appellant. PW 3 was a local man and a post-occurrence witness. PW 3 deposed about the appellant making an extra-judicial
confession. The appellant was moving inside the grilled house. The appellant threatened that others would face
the same consequence if they came. She spoke about the
existence of a family dispute. He also threatened them with murder if they tried to
enter. He made an extra-judicial confession admitting his guilt. In his cross-examination,
PW 6 stated that others also saw the dead bodies from outside the house. The appellant was giving out threats to kill. PW 9 was the autopsy surgeon for both
the victims. In his cross- examination, PW 9 admitted that he did not prepare necessary
reports. He found rigor mortis present in the dead bodies. There was no reply in
his report about whether an attempt to rape was there. She shouted when the
appellant was hitting. PW 14 was the photographer at the house/place of
occurrence. A wooden cot was found without blood stains. He could not find any
motive for the murders. The alleged incidents took place evidently at the spar of the moment and without any
premeditation. Mr. Neguive Ahmed, the Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the State submitted as follows. Vital portions of the body were attacked. But, he went on to repeat the act on his daughter with whom he did not have any dispute. Even after the incident, the appellant restrained others from coming in and threatened them. Even
the younger daughter was threatened. When PW 10's elder sister tried to intervene, the appellant hit her too with another brick. PWs 3, 5, 6 and 8 as immediate
post-occurrence witnesses saw the appellant threatening others from inside the grilled gate of the
house. The appellant was moving around threatening everybody including PW 10. I found lacerated
injury on whole of scalp, multiple fracture on skull bone. Lacerated injury of bone, cerebral
haemorrhage, extradural haemorrhage, subdural haemorrahage, sub- arachnotic. (Mark the post-mortem report of the dead body of Aparajita Mondal as Ext. If
one is assaulted by a heavy brick one might sustain such type of injury and it may even cause his/her
death. The post-mortem report of Jayanti Mondal is duly prepared and
signed by me. ( In my opinion death was due to injuries mentioned in my report. It s ante-mortem and homicidal
in nature. If one is hit by brick one might sustain such type of injuries and even instantly cause
death." But, a murder need
not always be a premeditated one. It is settled law that intention to commit murder can develop
instantaneously. Although the
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/46753019/

5

Mathur @ Mathura Mondal vs The State Of West Bengal on 3 July, 2019

preceding quarrel in a way acted as a mitigating factor, there were too many aggravating
circumstances to deal with. Even those bricks were not easily available. A sudden rage
would have ended by such time. The appellant was having no
quarrel with the second victim, her daughter. Simply because she intervened, the appellant choose
to hit her on a vital part of her body with another brick. We refrain from making any observation in this regard. A copy of the judgment along with the Lower Court records shall be sent down to the learned
Trial Court forthwith by a Special Messenger for information and necessary action.