for educational use only
Jatindra Nath Mahato & Ors vs The State Of West Bengal & Anr on 14 February, 2019

Calcutta High Court (Appellete Side)
Jatindra Nath Mahato & Ors vs The State Of West Bengal & Anr on 14 February, 2019
IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
Appellate Side

Present:
The Hon'ble Justice Md. Mumtaz Khan
And
The Hon'ble Justice Jay Sengupta

C.R.A. 331 of 1996
Jatindra Nath Mahato & Ors. 500/- each, in default to suffer rigorous imprisonment for
another 2 months. On 12.10.1987 at 00:30 hours on getting information from PW 17, PW 11 had been to the place of
occurrence. One
person wore a 'dhoti' like 'lungi' and a white 'panjabee'. He was dark, of sound health and had a
turban on his head. One of them was of tender age and was slim and
fair. They were speaking in the language of the informant as well as in Hindi. They threatened that they would also murder his wife and his (special friend) Nagu
Babu of Baghmundi. They also said that the victim was making her daughter study at Ayodhya More
and just completed the study of his son from Orissa. The informant asked
her the younger sister to give the keys. One accused followed her younger sister and returned after a
short while. While coming
out the said accused dragged the informant by catching her hand and told that he would make the
informant his wife. The informant showed her aunt as her mother. Then the man said that she was not the informant's mother. The informant's mother was of fair
complexion and had sufficient hair on her head. After that they all left through the village fields. At that time
the victim had said that they would not get her daughter married to anybody. He had given
education to his daughter and would give a motor cycle to his would be son-in-law. The informant's mother had asked to intimate the matter to the police but it was not so
intimated. A list of articles allegedly looted by the appellants was furnished by the
informant. PW 15, a Sub-Inspector of Police, held an inquest over the deadbody of
the victim on 12.10.1987 at about 13:25 hours at the place of occurrence in the presence of witnesses
PWs 12, 13 and three others. She was an eye-witness to the occurrence
and supported her First Information Report. In fact, she deposed that she had lodged the First
Information Report by taking some risk. Her mother had asked her not to disclose the names of the
miscreants, otherwise they would kill her. She reiterated that she did not shout during the occurrence out of fear. After the incident when her
mother and brother came, she had told them everything. The miscreants dragged PW 1 and took her away for sometime. She
also deposed about the earlier refusal of the victim to give PW 1 in marriage. In her cross-examination, PW 2 admitted
that she did not tell the police that her mother had asked her not to disclose the facts. PW 3
was a police constable who carried the deadbody of the victim for post-mortem examination. He
opined that the death was due to severe shock and haemorrhage as a result of the injuries
mentioned, which were ante-mortem and homicidal in nature (gunshot injury). He deposed that a
person may die instantly from such injury. She remained there and also asked her son not to go out. She asked her daughters
not to disclose the matter to anyone. In her cross-examination, PW 5 admitted that
the accused Karna, Mohan and Kanistha had shares in the tank along with the victim. She stated
that the neighbours did not come despite the cries. She did not remember whether she was
examined by the police. He deposed that
the said accused had come to take some betel. According to him, the victim came and purchased a 'pan'. This happened at about 16:00/16:30
hours. PW 1 was another local witness who turned hostile and PW 10 was tendered in evidence. A GD Entry was lodged over
the said information. In her cross-examination, PW 12
could not recollect a few things and added the allegation that an accused had tied a rope around the
victim's neck. PW 13 was the son of the victim and a post-occurrence witness. The eye-witnesses told him about the incident. He also deposed about the marriage
proposal for PW 1 and the accused Jatin's threats to murder their mother. PW 15 was an Investigating Officer of the case. He reached
the place of occurrence at about 1:15 hours. He did not find any label on the hurricane and the lamp. PW 16, a Sub Inspector of
the CID, was the second Investigating Officer. Therefore, the First Information Report is hit by Section 162 of the Code. He contended that the
strangest part is that although the miscreants were alleged to be unknown as per the First
Information Report, the description of some of them were given there and the informant stated that
she would be able to identify the accused, yet subsequently the accused were found to be the
relations of the informant, as per the informant herself. According to the Learned Advocate, PW 12 thus cannot be trusted. Besides, several
witnesses had turned hostile. Even as per PW 16, the second Investigating Officer,
PW 1 mentioned the name of only one miscreant. The Learned Advocate
submitted that the examination of the accused under Section 313 of the Code was not proper as the
questions put were very complex. He submitted that PW 1 was a vital witness - the
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/192650392/

5

Jatindra Nath Mahato & Ors vs The State Of West Bengal & Anr on 14 February, 2019

de facto complainant of the case and an eye-witness. The Learned Advocate also submitted that if the accused thought
that the examination under Section 313 was not proper, they could have adduced defence witnesses. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/192650392/

6

Jatindra Nath Mahato & Ors vs The State Of West Bengal & Anr on 14 February, 2019

11. It is quite clear from the
evidence of the eye-witnesses namely, PWs 1, 2 and 12 that the appellants also wanted to finish off
PW 5, their mother. The non- mentioning of the presence of a lame man
amongst the accused, as the appellant Kanistha was indeed a lame man, too might have been out of
the same fear that doing the same would specifically identify the said accused, which was not what
PW 1 intended at that point out of fear. It appears that PW 15, the Investigating Officer in fact
arrested one of the appellants namely the appellant Jatindra Nath on the very night of occurrence on
the basis of suspicion as indicated in the First Information Report. But the names of the accused
were mentioned later on before the second Investigating Officer PW 16. In any event, raids were conducted to
nab the other accused even before 24.11.1987. We do not agree with the submission of the Learned Advocate for the appellants that any further
details of the marriage proposal, groom's name and details of threats ought to have been given by
the concerned witnesses. Despite being relations, they too were the most natural witnesses and they would be more interested
to see that the real guilty were punished. Rigor mortis was found to be
present and as such, the timing also matched. The medical evidence, therefore, clearly supported the
prosecution case. Moreover, from the trend of cross-examination of the
prosecution witnesses it is clear that the accused were very much aware of the charges they were
facing.