for educational use only
Ramesh Saran Rai vs Union Of India & Ors on 25 January, 2019

Calcutta High Court (Appellete Side)
Ramesh Saran Rai vs Union Of India & Ors on 25 January, 2019
IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA
Constitutional Writ Jurisdiction
Appellate Side
Present :- Hon'ble Justice Amrita Sinha
WP No. Advocate
R. Gupta, Advocate
A. Mukherjee, Advocate
S. Fasih, Advocate. For the CBI

:-

Mr. Kausik Chanda, ASG
Mr. Debasish Basu, Advocate. The petitioner prays for quashing the same. While the petitioner was serving as the Deputy Chief Operations
Manager, freight operations information system, Kolkata he tendered his resignation on 23rd July,
2007. In such changed circumstances the petitioner made a
representation before the General Manager, South Eastern Railway, Kolkata praying for
withdrawing his resignation on 22nd November, 2007. Vide a memo dated 28th March, 2008 the Deputy Chief Personal Officer intimated the petitioner
that the petitioner's prayer for withdrawal of resignation was refused and the service of the
petitioner stood resigned with immediate effect. The master-servant relationship between the
petitioner and the stood severed with effect from 29th March, 2008. Having tendered his
resignation from service the petitioner was not entitled to pension. The petitioner issued NOC in favour of one M/s. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/68190032/

2

Ramesh Saran Rai vs Union Of India & Ors on 25 January, 2019

The petitioner invested his ill-gotten money in various companies wherein his wife and
brother-in-law are the directors. He also incurred huge expenses on his personal foreign travel while
he was posted and working with the South Eastern Railway during the period 3rd August, 2005 to
8th August, 2005 and 14th May, 2007 to 12th June, 2007. He invested his ill-gotten wealth after
retirement in a clever manner to camouflage the same as his purported income from business. It was alleged that while the petitioner was in service his wife
was a housewife and his brother-in-law was a student and they did not have any independent
substantial income. On the basis of the aforesaid facts the Superintendent of Police registered a Regular Case against the
petitioner, his wife and his brother-in- law under Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(e) of the
Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 read with Section 109 IPC and endorsed the case for
investigation and filing report. The primary contention of the petitioner is that the contents of the FIR is ex facie incorrect and
untrue in view of the categorical intimation given by the General Manager, South Eastern Railway,
Kolkata to the Secretary of the Railway Board on 2nd August, 2007 intimating that there was no
vigilance and special police enquiry case pending against the petitioner. The Wagon Investment Scheme was introduced in the year 2005. Certain incentives
were assured to the customers investing in the railway wagons. iii)

Association or group of companies in a cluster. His wife was an income tax assesse and the loan amount was to be paid from
the earnings of his wife. He submits that the asset of the company can never be treated as personal property/asset
of a director of the company. Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/68190032/

4

Ramesh Saran Rai vs Union Of India & Ors on 25 January, 2019

It has been submitted that the date on which the FIR had been lodged the petitioner was not a
public servant. The Superintendent of Police after a preliminary look will decide whether the said
complaint merits attention. It is to be seen whether a criminal offence can be made out requiring
any action by CBI. Only after analysis of the said complaint if it is revealed that the complaint reveal
substantial issue and need further verification the permission of the Competent Authority has to be
obtained. In the instant case the name of the informant has
not been disclosed in the FIR. As per paragraph 8.5(iii) of the Manual where the allegations relate to
service matters and can be better looked into by the departmental authority, verification should not
be taken up. (ii) Lalita Kumari vs. Government of Uttar Pradesh & Ors (2014)2 SCC 1 paragraphs
117, 120.6. He submits
that the petitioner stashed away ill-gotten money while he was in service and very cunningly he did
not disclose the same in his accounts. On the wake of an investigation the petitioner along with two
other employees of the railways tendered their resignation. The petitioner acquired several properties in India and abroad. He floated
several companies to stock his ill-gotten money. The writ Court
should allow the investigation to proceed and come to its logical conclusion. He submits that as per Section 19(3)(c) of the Act no Court shall stay the proceedings under the Act
on any ground. 2014)14 SCC 29 (paragraphs 6 to 11)
(iv) Chirag M. Pathak & Ors. The
statements and objects of the Act mention that there are provisions in the Act to enable attachment
of ill-gotten wealth obtained through corrupt means, including from transferees of such wealth. The petitioner submitted his resignation from service on 23rd July, 2007 and even though the
resignation of the petitioner was accepted on 18th September, 2007 he was not allowed to hand over
the charge on that date and his resignation came into effect on and from 28th March, 2008. Prior to
acceptance of resignation the vigilance department issued a report that there was no vigilance case
pending against him. The general rule of criminal justice is that 'crime never dies'. Nullum tempus aut locus occurit regi
(lapse of time is no bar to the Crown in proceeding against offenders). The object of the criminal law is to punish perpetrators of crime. The astronomical figures reflected in the bank account or the income tax returns of an individual do
not necessarily imply that the same has been earned by illegal means and if that be so there are
relevant laws to deal with the person concerned. No allegation of misconduct was raised against him as long as he was a public servant. The vigilance department certified that there was
no vigilance proceeding against the petitioner prior to acceptance of his resignation. There was no
whisper of initiation of any proceeding either. See M. Krishna Reddy
-vs- State Deputy Superintendent of Police, Hyderabad; AIR 1993 SC 313]. The petitioner after tendering his resignation joined business. Any diligent businessman will make use of his optimum resources to maximize his
profit margin. It may also happen that due to the acquaintance of the petitioner
with the railway officers the company of the petitioner did good business and earned huge returns. The gap is so large that one cannot resist the conclusion that the
earnings may not be by honest means. Possibility of being involved in illegal activities during the
service period cannot be ruled out completely. The period when the
misconduct was committed is relevant and not the time when the same is detected. It is only when
the Public Servant fails to satisfactorily account for the said assets he becomes liable to be proceeded
in accordance with the Act. In the case of P. Sirajuddin (supra) the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that "Before a public servant,
whatever be his status, is publicly charged with acts of dishonesty which amount to serious
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/68190032/

9

Ramesh Saran Rai vs Union Of India & Ors on 25 January, 2019

misdemeanour or misconduct of the type alleged in this case and a first information is lodged
against him, there must be some suitable preliminary enquiry into the allegations by a responsible
officer. If the Government had set up a
Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Department as was done in the State of Madras and the said
department was entrusted with enquiries of this kind, no exception can be taken to an enquiry by
officers of this department but any such enquiry must proceed in a fair and reasonable manner. The means adopted no less than the end to be achieved must be impeccable. When the enquiry is to be held for the purpose of finding out whether criminal
proceedings are to be resorted to the scope thereof must be limited to the examination of persons
who have knowledge of the affairs of the delinquent officer and documents bearing on the same to
find out whether there is prima facie evidence of guilt of the officer. In Chirag M. Pathak (supra) paragraphs 23 to 28 placed by the respondents the Court relied upon
the principle that the Court has no power to stop the investigation, for to do so would be to trench
upon the lawful power of the police to investigate into cognizable offences. Throttling the
investigation to come to its logical conclusion at this stage will not be proper. Public servants may
think that they can get a reprieve if their illegal activity remains undetected during their service
tenure. The petitioner must be given an opportunity to meet the allegations made
against him. 1320 (W) of 2012 is disposed of accordingly. There will, however, be no order as to costs. Urgent certified photocopy of this judgment, if applied for, be supplied to the parties on compliance
of usual legal formalities.