for educational use only
REPORTABLE

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
CIVIL APPEAL NO. No explanation for the large sum of unaccounted cash was
forthcoming from Sharma, except for a plea for mercy, post which the
amount was seized and the incident recorded in the General Diary
(“GD”) kept at the North­gate of the BPCL compound. ASI Karan Singh (PW­4) deposed that two empty
garbage trucks had entered the BPCL premises earlier in the
afternoon. CW­
1, later on though, retracted and claimed that the record reflected
something other than what he had stated, and that his signatures
ought not to be relied upon as he had not read the document. Based on these numerous evidences and after according the

appellant an opportunity to cross­examine all the witnesses as well as
leading his own substantive arguments, the enquiry officer through
report dated 17.09.1999 held the appellant guilty under each of the
three charges. Finally, upon
a holistic interpretation of all evidence, that is, falsification of GD,
threatening of KK Sharma (PW­2), as well as indications of wrongdoing
from the statements of other witnesses like DW­1; the enquiry officer
concluded that illegal sums were being collected by the appellant from
BPCL’s contractors through his subordinate officers and therefore, the
third charge of corruption too had been proved. Page | 7

c. Proceedings before the Disciplinary Authority

12. Keeping in mind the nature of
the allegations which entailed surreptitious corruption amongst
members of the paramilitary, the disciplinary authority observed that
it was unlikely that there would be independent witnesses to many
incidents like the charge of intimidating KK Sharma (PW­2) to give
false testimony, or of collecting bribe from BPCL’s contractors. The
contentions made in his appeal petitions are totally devoid of merits
both in fact and in law. The punishment imposed by the disciplinary
authority is not excessive in view of proven misconduct. Adequate
opportunities were granted and had been availed by him. Given the concurrent findings of the enquiry officer,
disciplinary authority, appellate authority, and the High Court; as well
as the detailed evaluation and reasoned order passed by each, it was
submitted that there remained little scope of re­appreciation or further
adjudication. The ratio of Shashi Prasad v. CISF1 was distilled to
drive home the argument that departmental enquiries don’t stand on
the same pedestal as criminal proceedings. Judicial Review seeks to
ensure fairness in treatment and not fairness of conclusion. It ought
to be used to correct manifest errors of law or procedure, which might
result

in

significant

injustice;

or

in

case

of

bias

or

gross

unreasonableness of outcome.3
26. But that finding must be based on some evidence. Page | 15

power of judicial review does not act as appellate authority to
reappreciate the evidence and to arrive at its own independent
findings on the evidence. The disciplinary authority is the sole judge of facts. In a
disciplinary inquiry, the strict proof of legal evidence and findings on
that evidence are not relevant. It is thus well settled that the Constitutional Courts while

exercising their powers of judicial review would not assume the role of
an appellate authority. The conclusion obtained
was based upon these very evidences and was detailed and well­
reasoned. The present case is
neither one where there is no evidence, nor is it one where we can
arrive at a different conclusion than the disciplinary authority,
especially for the reasons stated hereunder. Further, learned counsel for the appellant,
except for making a bald allegation that the enquiry officer has
Page | 18

questioned the witnesses, did not point to any specific question put by
the officer that would indicate that he had exceeded his jurisdiction. Rather it appears that the delinquent person received a fair trial,

which can illustratively be determined by analysing whether he
received an opportunity of adducing evidence, cross­examining
witnesses and whether depositions were recorded in his presence. Opportunity to seek assistance of
another officer was accorded, right of making representation was
granted before each authority, multiple opportunities were granted to
lead evidence, cross­examine witnesses, and raise objections. Minor delays on part of the appellant were ignored
and each concern of his had been addressed through detailed reasons. Page | 19

Corruption Act, as well as of violation of Service Regulations and
administrative misconduct. After investigation, the CBI though did not find adequate
material to launch criminal prosecution against the appellant but
through

its

self­speaking

report

dated

07.03.2000,

the

CBI

recommended major disciplinary action against the appellant and a
few others. It is beyond debate that criminal proceedings are distinct from

civil proceedings. It is both possible and common in disciplinary
matters

to

establish

charges

preponderance of probabilities

against
and

a

delinquent

official

by

consequently terminate

his

services. 7

6

Karnataka SRTC v. MG Vittal Rao, (2012) 1 SCC 442, ¶ 11. Taking any other view would be an anathema to service
jurisprudence. Once shattered through acts of intimidation, forgery, and corruption;
only the severest penalty ought to be imposed. …………………………….. J.
(N.V. RAMANA)
…………………………… J.
(S. ABDUL NAZEER)
…………………………...J.
(SURYA KANT)
NEW DELHI
DATED : 10.09.2020

10

Chandra Kumar Chopra v. Union of India, (2012) 6 SCC 369, ¶ 40.