Merely on doubtful material and cursory evidence, it cannot be held that the plaintiff was ever in possession of the property, and that too in settled possession.1 was in actual possession, much less continuous possession, of the property for a longer period which may be called settled possession or established possession.

Occupation of a property by a person as an agent or a servant acting at the instance of the owner will not amount to actual legal possession.
The First Appellate Court dismissed the said suit on the ground that the defendants had proved their title and possession over the suit property.Additionally, she argues that the sale deeds mentioned supra relied upon by the defendants would clearly reveal that the defendants were in possession of the property as owner thereof, from the date of purchase of the suit property.
It was also observed by this Court in Nair Service Society Ltd (supra) that a person in possession of land in assumed character of owner and exercising peaceably the ordinary rights of ownership has a perfectly good title against the entire world except the rightful owner.A casual act of possession does not have the effect of interrupting the possession of the rightful owner.
As far back as 1924, in the case of Midnapur Zamindary Co. Ltd. v. Naresh Narayan Roy, AIR 1924 PC 144, the learned Judge observed that in India, persons are not permitted to take forcible possession; they must obtain such possession as they are entitled to through a court.Generally, it is not open to the High Court to interfere with the findings of fact recorded by the First Appellate Court when such findings are based on the evidence on record, and are not perverse or against the material on record.
on 29 January, 2019 third plot being Plot No.18 of 2006, dismissing the same, are called in question in this appeal by the unsuccessful defendants.
The conclusion arrived at by the High Court and the reasons assigned for the same are not correct inasmuch as there is absolutely no material in favour of the case of the plaintiff to show possessory title.The plaintiff has to prove his case to the satisfaction of the Court.
