The first objection raised by the petitioners is that, the revision was filed by Respondent No.This order was unsuccessfully challenged by the plaintiffs/petitioners and others before this Honourable Court in Appeal from Order No.

Under Section 4 of the Bombay Inferior Village Watans Abolition Act, 1958, the Watan Lands resumed u/s 5 of the said Act were to be re-granted on payment of price equal to 3 times of full assessment of the said land.The grounds which are stated in the order are irrelevant and not germane to the proceedings under Section 44 of the MLR Code.
In para 6 of the judgment, the Division Bench of this Court has observed that in administrating all the abolition laws, the Collectors have to see whether the additional payment as contemplated by the particular Act has been made by the ex-Watandars or ex- Inamdars and the moment that was done, almost as a matter of formality, the order of conversion must be passed.
The Division Bench in the aforesaid case has also dealt with the provisions of Section 59(b) of the MLR Code by referring the Collector's order with regard to the eviction of the petitioners.There is no provision in the amended Act of 1958 to pay 13 times Najrana to convert new tenure land into old tenure land.
Learned counsel for respondent no.6 has placed reliance in the case of Vithal Kondhalkar vs. State of Maharashtra & others (supra) wherein, the question as to whether it is obligatory to re-grant the land upon payment of Nazrana has been dealt with by the Division Bench of this Court.In the case of N. K. Harchandani vs. State of Maharashtra and another (supra), wherein this Court had an occasion to consider the intervention by third party in the matter, it has been observed that such intervention can be permitted only if the intervener's participation is essential for deciding the lis before the Court.
and others (supra), relied upon by learned counsel for WP-8788-15pd respondent no.6, the Hon'ble Supreme Court dealt with the law relating to Watan lands, the scheme of Bombay Hereditary Offices Act, 1874, the scheme of Bombay Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/168431808/ 24 Rajendra Sambhaji Bagul And ... vs The Divisional Commissioner, ... on 20 June, 2019 Inferior Village Watans Abolition Act, 1958, the scheme of Bombay Revenue Jurisdiction Act, 1876 and in para 40 of the judgment, has observed that the scheme of the Bombay Inferior Village Watans Abolition Act, 1958 does not provide for the review of the re-grant order, nor does it provide for a de novo enquiry to decide whether any person is a watandar.15 from one Ramchandra Sagar who had purchased it from Bagul in the year 1966.
In the instant case the petitioners have come with a case that without there being any re-grant orders, some of the watandars illegally sold portion of the land gat no.It is the case of respondent no.6 that land gat no.
