Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned judgment and order dated 14.03.2017 passed by the High Court of Calcutta in Criminal Appeal No.3.1 It is further submitted by the learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that there was a single injury inflicted on the deceased after some altercation.

At the outset, it is required to be noted that this Court issued limited notice in the present appeal so as to consider whether the case would fall under Section 304 IPC.It is submitted that even in the case of a single blow, considering the nature of the injury and if the single blow is caused on the vital part of the body, it would be a case under Section 302 IPC considering Exception 4 to Section 300 IPC.
From the perusal of the record and even the findings recorded by the learned Trial Court and the High Court, it appears that the incident has taken place on the spur of the moment.
8 of 2013, by which the High Court has dismissed the said appeal preferred by the appellant­accused Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by MEENAKSHI KOHLI Date: 2020.01.07 15:04:02 IST Reason: and affirmed the conviction of the accused for the offence 2 punishable under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (for short ‘the IPC’), the convicted accused has preferred the present appeal.(M. R. SHAH) New Delhi; January 7, 2020.
However, as observed above, the incident had taken place on the spur of the moment and after some altercation the accused took the lathi which was lying there and caused the injury on the head of the deceased.
Therefore, it is prayed to dismiss the appeal.1930 OF 2019 Ananta Kamilya .. Appellant Versus State of West Bengal .. Respondent JUDGMENT M. R. Shah, J.
Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the accused has vehemently submitted that there was no intention on the part of the accused to cause the very injury which ultimately led to the death of the deceased.There does not appear any intention on the part of the accused to cause the very injury which ultimately led to the death of the deceased.
