It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant−original accused that even thereafter the appellant tried to save the deceased and poured water to save her and, while doing so, even the appellant−original accused also sustained the injuries.Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned judgment and order dated 09.10.2018 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Criminal Appeal No.

At the outset, it is required to be noted that the only submission made by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant−original accused is that the death of the deceased can be said to be a culpable homicide not amounting to murder and the case would fall under Exception 4 to Section 300 IPC and therefore the case would be under Section 304 Part II IPC.It is submitted therefore that Section 300 fourthly shall be attracted and not Exception 4 to Section 300 IPC as submitted on behalf of the accused.

Applying the law laid down by this Court in the cases of Bhagwan (supra) and Santosh (supra) to the facts of the case on hand and the manner in which the accused poured the kerosene on the deceased and thereafter when she was trying to run away from the room to save her, the accused came from behind and threw a match−stick and set her ablaze, we are of the opinion that the death of the deceased was a culpable homicide amounting to murder and Section 300 fourthly shall be applicable and not Exception 4 to Section 300 IPC as submitted on behalf of the accused.(M. R. SHAH) New Delhi, December 13, 2019.
The question, as to whether the drunkenness is a defence while determining sentence, came up for consideration before this Court in Bablu v. State of Rajasthan [(2006) 13 SCC 116 : (2007) 2 SCC (Cri) 590] , wherein this Court held (SCC p. 129, para 12) that the defence of drunkenness can be availed of only when intoxication produces such a condition as the accused loses the requisite intention for the offence and onus of proof about reason of intoxication, due to which the accused had become incapable of having particular knowledge in forming the particular intention, is on the accused.
723 of 2013, by which the High Court has dismissed the said appeal preferred by Signature Not Verified the appellant herein−original accused and has confirmed the Digitally signed by ARJUN BISHT Date: 2019.12.13 16:57:34 IST Reason: judgment and order of conviction passed by the learned Trial Court convicting the accused for the offence punishable under Section 302 of the IPC, the original accused has preferred the present appeal.
It is submitted that in that case before this Court, it was found that the accused was in a highly inebriated condition, which is not the case here.
