The appellant in Kulsum R. Nadiadwala’s case (supra) argued several points before this Court, which were resisted by the learned counsel appearing for the State of Maharashtra, basically on the ground that the writ petition should have been dismissed on the ground of delay and laches as was done by the impugned High Court judgment.She also stated that Kulsum R. Nadiadwala’s judgment, if properly read, did not amount to quashing of the entire section 4 notification, particularly in view of the last paragraph of the judgment, where the claim of the appellant was restricted only to 50 6 CIVIL APPEAL NO.

According to the respondents herein, a Draft Award was passed under Section 11 of the Act 1 CIVIL APPEAL NO.3636 OF 2016 on 23.09.1986, under Section confirmed against 18 that and after which 30, references of symbolic the were Act.
7.Thus, we are of the view that the matter needs to be placed before a Bench of three Judges.First and foremost, she adverted to an order of this Court dated 27.03.2018 by which a Division Bench of this Court has referred this matter to a larger Bench of three Judges.
Section 4 requirement of the that Act, the this Court notification After setting out observed under that Section 4 the be published in the Official Gazettee and the requirement that the Acquiring Authority should publish public notices of the substances of such notification in a convenient place or 2 CIVIL APPEAL NO.It is settled law that when any statutory provision provides a particular manner for doing a particular act, the said thing or act must be done in accordance with the manner prescribed therefor in the Act.
3636 OF 2016 UNION OF INDIA & ORS.& Ors.
9036-9038 of 2016) whether delay would apply as a good ground for dismissing a writ petition on the ground of laches insofar as challenges to land acquisition proceedings are concerned, and that we should await the judgment of the Constitution Bench before proceeding with the judgment in this case.3636 OF 2016 the facts of this case.
As learned against senior these submissions, counsel appearing Shri on Shyam behalf Divan, of the respondents, argued that that the section 4 notification in both these cases being the same, and Kulsum R. Nadiadwala’s case being a final judgment of this Court in which a review petition and a curative petition have been dismissed, the said judgment would apply on all fours to the facts of this case.This being the case, and regard being had to what we have stated hereinabove, it is wholly unnecessary for us to adjourn this case in order to await the judgment of the Constitution Bench in this case.
