The present appeals arise from a common order dated 30.08.2019, passed in three separate miscellaneous appeals filed by the appellants before the High Court affirming an order of injunction.These collectively have correctly been interpreted to hold a prima facie case in favour of the plaintiff.

This is evident from the alternative contention in the suit that there existed an oral contract.Defendant no.2 paid Rs.17.69 crores and Rs.2.20 crores towards the income tax dues of the defendant the same day, as part of the consideration amount.
Dr. Singhvi framed the question, whether concurrent findings of the Special Civil Judge and the High Court by two detailed well considered orders were such as to warrant interference so as to dissipate the substratum of the suit.The Defendants had surreptitiously entered into a registered agreement for sale with defendant no.2 on 31.03.2018 and thus the suit and prayer for injunction.
In Madamsetty (supra) it was observed : “12…..It is not possible or desirable to lay down the circumstances under which a court can exercise its discretion against the plaintiff.Chapter VII, Section 36 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Act’) provides for grant of preventive relief.
The cardinal principles for grant of temporary injunction were considered in Dalpat Kumar vs. Prahlad Singh, (1992) 1 SCC 719, observing as follows : “5…Satisfaction that there is a prima facie case by itself is not sufficient to grant injunction.The fact that a draft MoU christened as ‘final­for discussion’ was sent the same day cannot lead to the inference in isolation, of a concluded contract.
The appellant in Civil Appeal No.9348 of 2019 (Neptune Infraspace Private Ltd.) was impleaded as defendant no.2 in the latter suit.9346 OF 2019 (arising out of SLP (Civil) No(s).
We are of the considered opinion that at this stage we ought to refrain from returning findings of facts or express any opinion on the merits of the suit, except to the extent necessary for purposes of the present order, so as not to prejudice either party in the suit.Much will depend on the facts of a case.
