Applicant versus The State of Maharashtra .... Respondent ....... Mr.A.P.Mundargi for the Applicant and Ms. A.A. Takalkar, APP for the State.

The central issue that arises for consideration is whether the appellant who has been discharged under Section 67 of the IT Act could be proceeded under Section 292 IPC."In view of the aforesaid analysis and the authorities referred to hereinabove, we are of the considered opinion that the High Court has fallen into error that though charge has not been made out under Section 67 of the IT Act, yet the appellant could be proceeded under Section 292 IPC."
In that context, the Division Bench held that section 408 and 420 could not be proceeded with once the offence u/s 43, 65, 66 and 81 of IT Act were applied.Sharat Babu Digumarti's case (supra) was 14 / 17 912-ABA-690-19.odt referred to by a Division Bench of this Court in the case of Gagan Sharma (Supra).
She submitted that there was no inconsistency between the provisions which are applied in respect of the offences under the IT Act and the Indian Penal Code in this case.These provisions indicate beyond any doubt that the account summery statement or the bank statement is a part of the bank account held by account holder.
Thus, in short there is no dispute that the account statement was in fact obtained by the present Applicant.The question arises as to whether he was entitled to procure it without permission of the first informant or without following due process of law and as to whether any non-bailable offence was committed by the present Applicant.
as reported in AIR 2018 SC-5348 are important; wherein it is held that, where an act or an omission constitutes an offence under two enactments, the offender may be prosecuted and punished under either or both enactments but shall not be liable to be punished twice for the same offence.Can you produce a passbook of this bank account from March, 2014 till date?
However, in the present case there is no inconsistency.In any case, the statement was taken away from possession of the bank; so the offence u/s 380 is definitely made out.
